standard/clause_0_front_material.adoc, before:

[big]*i.     Abstract*

<Insert Abstract Text here>

[big]*ii.    Keywords*

The following are keywords to be used by search engines and document catalogues.

ogcdoc, OGC document,  <tags separated by commas>

[big]*iii.   Preface*

[NOTE]
====
Insert Preface Text here. Give OGC specific commentary: describe the technical content, reason for document, history of the document and precursors, and plans for future work. >
Attention is drawn to the possibility that some of the elements of this document may be the subject of patent rights. The Open Geospatial Consortium shall not be held responsible for identifying any or all such patent rights.

Recipients of this document are requested to submit, with their comments, notification of any relevant patent claims or other intellectual property rights of which they may be aware that might be infringed by any implementation of the standard set forth in this document, and to provide supporting documentation.
====
[big]*iv.    Submitting organizations*

The following organizations submitted this Document to the Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC):

Organization name(s)

[big]*v.     Submitters*

All questions regarding this submission should be directed to the editor or the submitters:

|===
^|Name  ^|Affiliation
|Charles Heazel |HeazelTech
|Stephan Meissl <stephan.meissl@eox.at> |https://eox.at[EOX IT Services GmbH]
|Tom Kralidis <tom.kralidis@canada.ca> | Meteorological Service of Canada
|Jerome St-Louis <jerome@ecere.com> | https://ecere.ca[Ecere Corporation]
|===

Commit message:

Modularization Update
Removed all but the bare minimum content from API-Common.
Added subset module import to coverage subset, range set subset, and domain set subset. This is a starting point for refining the use of requirements modules.

standard/clause_0_front_material.adoc, after:

[big]*i.     Abstract*

<Insert Abstract Text here>

[big]*ii.    Keywords*

The following are keywords to be used by search engines and document catalogues.

ogcdoc, OGC document, geographic information, spatial data, spatial things, dataset, distribution, API, json, html, OpenAPI, REST, Coverages

[big]*iii.   Preface*

Attention is drawn to the possibility that some of the elements of this document may be the subject of patent rights. The Open Geospatial Consortium Inc. shall not be held responsible for identifying any or all such patent rights.

Recipients of this document are requested to submit, with their comments, notification of any relevant patent claims or other intellectual property rights of which they may be aware that might be infringed by any implementation of the standard set forth in this document, and to provide supporting documentation.

[big]*iv.    Submitting organizations*

The following organizations submitted this Document to the Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC):

* Heazeltech LLC

[big]*v.     Submitters*

All questions regarding this submission should be directed to the editor or the submitters:

|===
^|Name  ^|Affiliation
|Charles Heazel |HeazelTech
|Stephan Meissl <stephan.meissl@eox.at> |https://eox.at[EOX IT Services GmbH]
|Tom Kralidis <tom.kralidis@canada.ca> | Meteorological Service of Canada
|Jerome St-Louis <jerome@ecere.com> | https://ecere.ca[Ecere Corporation]
|===
