standard/clause_14_encodings.adoc, before:

[[encodings-section]]
== Requirements Classes for Encodings

This standard does not mandate any particular encoding or format in which to return the `../coverage` resource.
Coverages can be encoded in any suitable data format.
However, it does define requirements class for encodings which are expected to be commonly supported in implementations of this standard.
These requirements classes include:

* <<rc-encoding-html,HTML>>
* <<rc-encoding-geotiff,GeoTIFF>>
* <<rc-encoding-netcdf,netCDF>>
* <<rc-encoding-cisjson,CIS JSON>>
* <<rc-encoding-coveragejson,CoverageJSON>>
* <<rc-encoding-las,LAS>>
* <<rc-encoding-laszip,LASZip>>
* <<rc-encoding-png,PNG>>
* <<rc-encoding-jpegxl,JPEG XL>>
* <<rc-encoding-jpeg2000,JPEG 2000>>
* <<rc-encoding-zarr,(Geo)Zarr>>

None of these encodings is mandatory. An implementor of this standard may choose to implement none of them, selecting different encodings instead.

The media type used to encode a response to a request shall be determined based on HTTP content negotiation, as specified in _OGC API - Common_.
If not using content negotiation, the encoding must follow the media type described in the link to the resource from the collection.

For most efficient usage, a coverage should be available in binary form, for which a number of encodings requirements classes are defined below.

=== Media Types

A table of the media types corresponding to each encoding requirements class defined in this standard follows.

[#api-coverage-media-types,reftext='{table-caption} {counter:table-num}']
.Media Types for each encoding requirements class
[width="90%",cols="2,4"]
|====
^|*Encoding*            ^|*media type*
|HTML                    |text/html
|GeoTIFF                 |image/tiff; application=geotiff
|netCDF                  |application/x-netcdf
|CIS JSON                |application/json (TODO: either OGC API will adopt a mechanism for negotiation by profile, or a more specific media type will be registered)
|CoverageJSON            |application/prs.coverage+json
|LAS                     |vnd.las
|LASZip                  |vnd.laszip
|PNG                     |image/png
|JPEG XL                 |image/jxl
|JPEG-2000               |image/jp2
|(Geo)Zarr               |application/x-zarr (TODO: Register this media type?)
|====

[[rc-encoding-html]]
=== Requirements Class "HTML"

==== Overview

The HTML requirements class defines at a high level the ability to retrieve an HTML response for the coverage resource intended primarily for users accessing the API from a Web browser.

The exact content of the HTML response is not prescribed, leaving the flexibility for implementations to choose a preferred approach, such as embedding a static or interactive view of a coverage.

HTML is the core language of the World Wide Web. An API that supports HTML will support browsing the spatial resources with a web browser and will also enable search engines to crawl and index those resources.

include::requirements/requirements_class_html.adoc[]

[[rc-encoding-geotiff]]
=== Requirements Class "GeoTIFF"

==== Overview

The GeoTIFF requirements class defines support for encoding a coverage response according to the https://docs.ogc.org/is/19-008r4/19-008r4.html[OGC GeoTIFF standard].

// TODO: include::requirements/requirements_class_geotiff.adoc[]

=== Requirements Class "netCDF"

==== Overview

The netCDF requirements class defines support for encoding a coverage response according to the https://portal.ogc.org/files/?artifact_id=43732[OGC netCDF standard].

// TODO: include::requirements/requirements_class_netcdf.adoc[]

[[rc-encoding-cisjson]]
=== Requirements Class "CIS JSON"

==== Overview

The CIS JSON requirements class defines support for encoding a coverage response according to the http://www.opengis.net/doc/IS/cis/1.1.1[OGC Coverage Implementation Schema (CIS) 1.1].

The http://www.opengis.net/doc/IS/cis/1.1.1[Coverage Implementation Schema (CIS) 1.1] defines a logical model and physical encodings (e.g., CIS JSON) which can be used to retrieve the coverage of its components according to this https://github.com/opengeospatial/ogcapi-coverages[OGC API - Coverages] Web API standard.
A CIS JSON representation is required at least for the domain set and the range type, which can both either be embedded within the collection resource, or provided as separate resources.

A high-level view of the CIS data model is provided in <<abstract-coverage-figure>>.

[#abstract-coverage-figure,reftext='{figure-caption} {counter:fig-num}']
.Abstract Coverage
image::figures/Abstract_Coverage.png[]

The CIS JSON structures are defined using JSON Schema at https://schemas.opengis.net/cis/1.1/json/coverage-schema.json.
A draft corrigendum is available at https://github.com/opengeospatial/coverage-implementation-schema/blob/main/standard/schemas/1.1/json/coverage-schema.json, with updated examples
available at https://github.com/opengeospatial/coverage-implementation-schema/tree/main/standard/schemas/1.1/json/examples .

Specifically for the `../coverage` resource, the media type `application/json` is reserved for use with CIS JSON until a dedicated media type is registered.

The CIS Standard defines four aspects of a coverage which are described in separate properties: the domain set, the range type, the rangeset, and the domain-specific metadata.
By default, all of these aspects should be returned as part of a coverage response, with the domain-specific metadata being optional if none is available.

This CIS JSON requirements class defines a permission for implementations to support a `profile` query parameter which can be used by a client to retrieve only some of these aspects of the coverage e.g.,
`profile=domainset,rangetype`. Information equivalent to the CIS _DomainSet_ is already included in the collection description resource `extent` property,
whereas information equivalent to the CIS _RangeType_ is included in the schema resource associated with the collection resource.
This profiling capability also allows clients to retrieve a subset of the domainset when using `profile=domainset` together with
one or more subsetting parameters (`subset`, `bbox` or `datetime`).

The CIS standard defines a number of alternative way in which a coverage encoding can be structured.
In order to maximize interoperability, this requirements class specifies that the response will be a _CoverageByDomainAndRange_ consisting of either a DomainSet described by a
_GeneralGridCoverage_ (for coverages consisting of one or more dimensions of regular and/or irregular grids) or a _DirectMultiPoint_ coverage (for point clouds), excluding
a _CoverageByPartitioning_ defined by a PartitionSet, unless a prior arrangement (not specified by this Standard) is established with the client.

Similarly, this requirement class also specifies that the CIS JSON response will be self-contained (not linking to data available in separate resources),
unless a prior arrangement (not specified by this Standard) is established with the client.

Since the description of the coverage domain and range is easily available at the `/collections/{collectionId}` and `/collections/{collectionId}/schema` resources,
implementations and clients are likely to prefer keeping to single-part encodings, and would select a binary encoding such as those defined in the other encoding requirements classes for efficient access.

This requirements class also clarifies how to describe the _DomainSet_ of coverages based on whether the _RangeSet_ values correspond to cells whose geometry are a single point or an area,
ensuring that the extent interval in the collection resource always fully cover the spatial extent described by the coverage and that this extent description is consistent with other
OGC API Standards, such as OGC API - Maps (where map pixels always represent an area), which may be made available for the same collection resource.

include::requirements/requirements_class_cisjson.adoc[]

[[rc-encoding-coveragejson]]
=== Requirements Class "CoverageJSON"

==== Overview

The CoverageJSON requirements class defines support for encoding a coverage response according to the https://docs.ogc.org/cs/21-069r2/21-069r2.html[OGC CoverageJSON Community Standard].

// TODO: include::requirements/requirements_class_coveragejson.adoc[]

[[rc-encoding-las]]
=== Requirements Class "LAS"

==== Overview

The LAS requirements class defines support for encoding a coverage response according to the https://portal.ogc.org/files/?artifact_id=74523[OGC LAS Community Standard].

This requirements class is particularly well suited for distributing point cloud coverages.

// TODO: include::requirements/requirements_class_las.adoc[]

[[rc-encoding-laszip]]
=== Requirements Class "LASZip"

==== Overview

The LASZip requirements class defines support for encoding a coverage response according to the
https://www.cs.unc.edu/~isenburg/lastools/download/laszip.pdf[LASZip] compression extension of the https://portal.ogc.org/files/?artifact_id=74523[OGC LAS Community Standard].

This requirements class is particularly well suited for distributing point cloud coverages.

// TODO: include::requirements/requirements_class_laszip.adoc[]

[[rc-encoding-png]]
=== Requirements Class "PNG"

==== Overview

The PNG requirements class defines support for encoding a coverage response according to the https://www.w3.org/TR/2003/REC-PNG-20031110/[W3C Portable Network Graphics (PNG) Specification] (https://www.iso.org/standard/29581.html[ISO/IEC 15948:2003]).

Because PNG encoding is limited to an integer data values, this requirements class defines additional parameters and response headers allowing a client to request
a specific scale factor and offset to be used to quantize coverage values, and allowing the implementation to inform the client of the scale factor and offset
used for that quantization.

// TODO: include::requirements/requirements_class_png.adoc[]

[[rc-encoding-jpegxl]]
=== Requirements Class "JPEG XL"

==== Overview

The JPEG XL requirements class defines support for encoding a coverage response according to the https://jpeg.org/jpegxl/[JPEG XL] https://www.iso.org/standard/77977.html[ISO/IEC 18181 Standard].

// JPEG XL supports a large number of bands, image dimensions, and floating points.

// TODO: include::requirements/requirements_class_jpegxl.adoc[]

[[rc-encoding-jpeg2000]]
=== Requirements Class "JPEG 2000"

==== Overview

The JPEG 2000 requirements class defines support for encoding a coverage response according to the https://jpeg.org/jpeg2000/[JPEG 2000] https://www.iso.org/standard/78321.html[ISO/IEC 15444], with
support for georeferencing with http://www.opengis.net/doc/IS/GMLJP2/2.1[GMLJP2].

// TODO: .jpf for floating point support, and/or parameters like PNG?

// TODO: include::requirements/requirements_class_jpeg2000.adoc[]

[[rc-encoding-zarr]]
=== Requirements Class "(Geo)Zarr"

==== Overview

The (Geo)Zarr requirements class defines support for encoding a coverage response according to the https://portal.ogc.org/files/100727[OGC Zarr Community Standard], with
eventual support for https://www.ogc.org/requests/ogc-to-form-geozarr-standards-working-group-public-comment-sought-on-draft-charter/[GeoZarr].

// TODO: include::requirements/requirements_class_zarr.adoc[]

Commit message:

Additional fixes - typos - adding requirements for response headers (Content-Crs:, Content-Bbox:), matching Features ans Maps - clarifying `crs`, `storageCRS` and adding missing `storageCRSExtent` property in /collections/{collectionId} - adding requirement in Core about supporting `scale-factor=1` - adding recommendation for limits - adding coverage-scenes links - removed no longer relevant text in CIS JSON - removed remaining not applicable content in subset, clarified remaining s/target resource/coverage resource

standard/clause_14_encodings.adoc, after:

[[encodings-section]]
== Requirements Classes for Encodings

This standard does not mandate any particular encoding or format in which to return the `../coverage` resource.
Coverages can be encoded in any suitable data format.
However, it does define requirements class for encodings which are expected to be commonly supported in implementations of this standard.
These requirements classes include:

* <<rc-encoding-html,HTML>>
* <<rc-encoding-geotiff,GeoTIFF>>
* <<rc-encoding-netcdf,netCDF>>
* <<rc-encoding-cisjson,CIS JSON>>
* <<rc-encoding-coveragejson,CoverageJSON>>
* <<rc-encoding-las,LAS>>
* <<rc-encoding-laszip,LASZip>>
* <<rc-encoding-png,PNG>>
* <<rc-encoding-jpegxl,JPEG XL>>
* <<rc-encoding-jpeg2000,JPEG 2000>>
* <<rc-encoding-zarr,(Geo)Zarr>>

None of these encodings is mandatory. An implementor of this standard may choose to implement none of them, selecting different encodings instead.

The media type used to encode a response to a request shall be determined based on HTTP content negotiation, as specified in _OGC API - Common_.
If not using content negotiation, the encoding must follow the media type described in the link to the resource from the collection.

For most efficient usage, a coverage should be available in binary form, for which a number of encodings requirements classes are defined below.

=== Media Types

A table of the media types corresponding to each encoding requirements class defined in this standard follows.

[#api-coverage-media-types,reftext='{table-caption} {counter:table-num}']
.Media Types for each encoding requirements class
[width="90%",cols="2,4"]
|====
^|*Encoding*            ^|*media type*
|HTML                    |text/html
|GeoTIFF                 |image/tiff; application=geotiff
|netCDF                  |application/x-netcdf
|CIS JSON                |application/json (TODO: either OGC API will adopt a mechanism for negotiation by profile, or a more specific media type will be registered)
|CoverageJSON            |application/prs.coverage+json
|LAS                     |vnd.las
|LASZip                  |vnd.laszip
|PNG                     |image/png
|JPEG XL                 |image/jxl
|JPEG-2000               |image/jp2
|(Geo)Zarr               |application/x-zarr (TODO: Register this media type?)
|====

[[rc-encoding-html]]
=== Requirements Class "HTML"

==== Overview

The HTML requirements class defines at a high level the ability to retrieve an HTML response for the coverage resource intended primarily for users accessing the API from a Web browser.

The exact content of the HTML response is not prescribed, leaving the flexibility for implementations to choose a preferred approach, such as embedding a static or interactive view of a coverage.

HTML is the core language of the World Wide Web. An API that supports HTML will support browsing the spatial resources with a web browser and will also enable search engines to crawl and index those resources.

include::requirements/requirements_class_html.adoc[]

[[rc-encoding-geotiff]]
=== Requirements Class "GeoTIFF"

==== Overview

The GeoTIFF requirements class defines support for encoding a coverage response according to the https://docs.ogc.org/is/19-008r4/19-008r4.html[OGC GeoTIFF standard].

// TODO: include::requirements/requirements_class_geotiff.adoc[]

=== Requirements Class "netCDF"

==== Overview

The netCDF requirements class defines support for encoding a coverage response according to the https://portal.ogc.org/files/?artifact_id=43732[OGC netCDF standard].

// TODO: include::requirements/requirements_class_netcdf.adoc[]

[[rc-encoding-cisjson]]
=== Requirements Class "CIS JSON"

==== Overview

The CIS JSON requirements class defines support for encoding a coverage response according to the http://www.opengis.net/doc/IS/cis/1.1.1[OGC Coverage Implementation Schema (CIS) 1.1].

The http://www.opengis.net/doc/IS/cis/1.1.1[Coverage Implementation Schema (CIS) 1.1] defines a logical model and physical encodings (e.g., CIS JSON) which can be used to retrieve the coverage,
including a self-description, according to this https://github.com/opengeospatial/ogcapi-coverages[OGC API - Coverages] Web API standard.

A high-level view of the CIS data model is provided in <<abstract-coverage-figure>>.

[#abstract-coverage-figure,reftext='{figure-caption} {counter:fig-num}']
.Abstract Coverage
image::figures/Abstract_Coverage.png[]

The CIS JSON structures are defined using JSON Schema at https://schemas.opengis.net/cis/1.1/json/coverage-schema.json.
A draft corrigendum is available at https://github.com/opengeospatial/coverage-implementation-schema/blob/main/standard/schemas/1.1/json/coverage-schema.json, with updated examples
available at https://github.com/opengeospatial/coverage-implementation-schema/tree/main/standard/schemas/1.1/json/examples .

Specifically for the `../coverage` resource, the media type `application/json` is reserved for use with CIS JSON until a dedicated media type is registered.

The CIS Standard defines four aspects of a coverage which are described in separate properties: the domain set, the range type, the rangeset, and the domain-specific metadata.
By default, all of these aspects should be returned as part of a coverage response, with the domain-specific metadata being optional if none is available.

This CIS JSON requirements class defines a permission for implementations to support a `profile` query parameter which can be used by a client to retrieve only some of these aspects of the coverage e.g.,
`profile=domainset,rangetype`. Information equivalent to the CIS _DomainSet_ is already included in the collection description resource `extent` property,
whereas information equivalent to the CIS _RangeType_ is included in the schema resource associated with the collection resource.
This profiling capability also allows clients to retrieve a subset of the domainset when using `profile=domainset` together with
one or more subsetting parameters (`subset`, `bbox` or `datetime`).

The CIS standard defines a number of alternative way in which a coverage encoding can be structured.
In order to maximize interoperability, this requirements class specifies that the response will be a _CoverageByDomainAndRange_ consisting of either a DomainSet described by a
_GeneralGridCoverage_ (for coverages consisting of one or more dimensions of regular and/or irregular grids) or a _DirectMultiPoint_ coverage (for point clouds), excluding
a _CoverageByPartitioning_ defined by a PartitionSet, unless a prior arrangement (not specified by this Standard) is established with the client.

Similarly, this requirement class also specifies that the CIS JSON response will be self-contained (not linking to data available in separate resources),
unless a prior arrangement (not specified by this Standard) is established with the client.
Implementations wishing to present different constituent parts of a coverage as separate resources can consider implementing the <<rc-scenes, _Scenes_ requirements class>>, where
both a coverage for the overall collection, as well as a coverage for individual scenes, can be retrieved by a client.

Since the description of the coverage domain and range is easily available at the `/collections/{collectionId}` and `/collections/{collectionId}/schema` resources,
implementations and clients are likely to prefer keeping to single-part encodings, and would select a binary encoding such as those defined in the other encoding requirements classes for efficient access.

This requirements class also clarifies how to describe the _DomainSet_ of coverages based on whether the _RangeSet_ values correspond to cells whose geometry are a single point or an area,
ensuring that the extent interval in the collection resource always fully cover the spatial extent described by the coverage and that this extent description is consistent with other
OGC API Standards, such as _OGC API - Maps_ (where map pixels always represent an area), which may be made available for the same collection resource.

include::requirements/requirements_class_cisjson.adoc[]

[[rc-encoding-coveragejson]]
=== Requirements Class "CoverageJSON"

==== Overview

The CoverageJSON requirements class defines support for encoding a coverage response according to the https://docs.ogc.org/cs/21-069r2/21-069r2.html[OGC CoverageJSON Community Standard].

// TODO: include::requirements/requirements_class_coveragejson.adoc[]

[[rc-encoding-las]]
=== Requirements Class "LAS"

==== Overview

The LAS requirements class defines support for encoding a coverage response according to the https://portal.ogc.org/files/?artifact_id=74523[OGC LAS Community Standard].

This requirements class is particularly well suited for distributing point cloud coverages.

// TODO: include::requirements/requirements_class_las.adoc[]

[[rc-encoding-laszip]]
=== Requirements Class "LASZip"

==== Overview

The LASZip requirements class defines support for encoding a coverage response according to the
https://www.cs.unc.edu/~isenburg/lastools/download/laszip.pdf[LASZip] compression extension of the https://portal.ogc.org/files/?artifact_id=74523[OGC LAS Community Standard].

This requirements class is particularly well suited for distributing point cloud coverages.

// TODO: include::requirements/requirements_class_laszip.adoc[]

[[rc-encoding-png]]
=== Requirements Class "PNG"

==== Overview

The PNG requirements class defines support for encoding a coverage response according to the https://www.w3.org/TR/2003/REC-PNG-20031110/[W3C Portable Network Graphics (PNG) Specification] (https://www.iso.org/standard/29581.html[ISO/IEC 15948:2003]).

Because PNG encoding is limited to an integer data values, this requirements class defines additional parameters and response headers allowing a client to request
a specific scale factor and offset to be used to quantize coverage values, and allowing the implementation to inform the client of the scale factor and offset
used for that quantization.

// TODO: include::requirements/requirements_class_png.adoc[]

[[rc-encoding-jpegxl]]
=== Requirements Class "JPEG XL"

==== Overview

The JPEG XL requirements class defines support for encoding a coverage response according to the https://jpeg.org/jpegxl/[JPEG XL] https://www.iso.org/standard/77977.html[ISO/IEC 18181 Standard].

// JPEG XL supports a large number of bands, image dimensions, and floating points.

// TODO: include::requirements/requirements_class_jpegxl.adoc[]

[[rc-encoding-jpeg2000]]
=== Requirements Class "JPEG 2000"

==== Overview

The JPEG 2000 requirements class defines support for encoding a coverage response according to the https://jpeg.org/jpeg2000/[JPEG 2000] https://www.iso.org/standard/78321.html[ISO/IEC 15444], with
support for georeferencing with http://www.opengis.net/doc/IS/GMLJP2/2.1[GMLJP2].

// TODO: .jpf for floating point support, and/or parameters like PNG?

// TODO: include::requirements/requirements_class_jpeg2000.adoc[]

[[rc-encoding-zarr]]
=== Requirements Class "(Geo)Zarr"

==== Overview

The (Geo)Zarr requirements class defines support for encoding a coverage response according to the https://portal.ogc.org/files/100727[OGC Zarr Community Standard], with
eventual support for https://www.ogc.org/requests/ogc-to-form-geozarr-standards-working-group-public-comment-sought-on-draft-charter/[GeoZarr].

// TODO: include::requirements/requirements_class_zarr.adoc[]
