standard/requirements/requirements_class_coverage_scaling_temporal.adoc, before:

[[rc_table_scaling_temporal]]
[cols="1,4",width="90%"]
|===
2+|*Requirements Class*
2+|http://www.opengis.net/spec/ogcapi-coverages-1/1.0/req/scaling-temporal
|Target type |Web API
|Dependency  |http://www.opengis.net/spec/ogcapi-coverages-1/1.0/req/core
|===

=== Requirements

==== Query parameter `resolution`

[[req_coverage_scaling-temporal-resolution]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Requirement {counter:req-id}* |*/req/coverage-scaling-temporal/resolution*
^|A |For data with a temporal aspect, the coverage retrieval operation SHALL support a `resolution` query parameter specifying the resolution for the primary temporal dimension using ISO 8601 period notation
(as well as potentially supporting additional dimensions specified by other requirements classes).
^|B |The server SHALL support as a value for this parameter a comma-separated list of dimensions names followed by a resolution value in parentheses.
^|C |The server SHALL support an empty resolution value as referring to the native resolution for that particular dimension.
^|D |Axis name `time` SHALL be supported if the collection describes a temporal dimension in its extent.
^|E |A 400 error status code SHALL be returned for an axis name other than `time`, an alias for `time`, or any other axis supported in the context of other requirements classes (such as spatial and general scaling).
^|F |For a regularly gridded coverage, the resolution (the distance between two samples along that dimension) for each of the listed dimension(s) SHALL correspond to the specified value.
^|G |For an irregularly gridded coverage, the distance between two samples along each of the listed dimension(s) SHALL be at minimum the value specified as the resolution for the corresponding dimension.
^|H |For a non-gridded coverage, when explicitly listing each dimension, the distance between two samples along each of the listed dimension(s) SHALL be at minimum the value specified as the resolution
for the corresponding dimension.
|===

==== Downsampling permission

[[per_coverage_scaling-temporal-permission]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Permission {counter:per-id}* |*/per/coverage-scaling-temporal/downsampling*
^|A |In the case where a response to a request without a `resolution` parameter would be larger than an advertised server limit, an implementation
MAY automatically downsample the coverage to a suitable resolution instead of returning a 4xx client error.
|===

NOTE: A client retrieving a coverage from an implementation advertising support for this "Temporal Scaling" requirements class should explicitly use `resolution=time()` if it wants to ensure
retrieving the coverage in its native temporal resolution and prefers receiving an error instead of a downsampled version of the data.

[[scaling-temporal-parameter-aliases-recommendation]]
==== Recommendation for `time` dimension aliases

For convenience, this Standard recommends that Implementations recognize the different case variation and the shorthand `t` as an alias for the `time` dimension.
Generic clients intended to be interoperable with all Implementations of this Standard should not use these aliases,
but should always use `time` to refer to the primary temporal dimension as specified in the above requirement.

[[rec_coverage_scaling-temporal-aliases]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Recommentation {counter:rec-id}* |*/rec/scaling-temporal/resolution-temporal-aliases*
^|A | The axis names `t` (lowercase/uppercase) and `Time` case variation SHOULD be interpreted as aliases for `time` (the primary temporal dimension).
|===

IMPORTANT: To ensure interoperability, clients should always use the prescribed primary temporal axis name (`time`) and not rely on any of the aliases.

==== Permission to support legacy scaling query parameters

[[per_coverage_scaling-temporal-permission-legacy]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Permission {counter:per-id}* |*/per/coverage-scaling-temporal/legacy*
^|A |Implementations MAY additionally support the `scale-factor` and `scale-axes` legacy query parameters expressing resolution as the factor by which the data's native resolution has been downsampled (a factor of 2 meaning two times coarser).
^|B |Implementations MAY additionally support the `scale-size` legacy query parameter expressing the number of samples expected in the output for each dimension.
|===

IMPORTANT: To ensure interoperability, clients should use the `resolution` query parameter rather than the legacy ones.

Commit message:

Provide recommendations on interpolation when resampling - Fixes #197 - Also added mention of variableType in the definitions of additional dimensions, and x-ogc-variableType in field definitions of logical schemas

standard/requirements/requirements_class_coverage_scaling_temporal.adoc, after:

[[rc_table_scaling_temporal]]
[cols="1,4",width="90%"]
|===
2+|*Requirements Class*
2+|http://www.opengis.net/spec/ogcapi-coverages-1/1.0/req/scaling-temporal
|Target type |Web API
|Dependency  |http://www.opengis.net/spec/ogcapi-coverages-1/1.0/req/core
|===

=== Requirements

==== Query parameter `resolution`

[[req_coverage_scaling-temporal-resolution]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Requirement {counter:req-id}* |*/req/coverage-scaling-temporal/resolution*
^|A |For data with a temporal aspect, the coverage retrieval operation SHALL support a `resolution` query parameter specifying the resolution for the primary temporal dimension using ISO 8601 period notation
(as well as potentially supporting additional dimensions specified by other requirements classes).
^|B |The server SHALL support as a value for this parameter a comma-separated list of dimensions names followed by a resolution value in parentheses.
^|C |The server SHALL support an empty resolution value as referring to the native resolution for that particular dimension.
^|D |Axis name `time` SHALL be supported if the collection describes a temporal dimension in its extent.
^|E |A 400 error status code SHALL be returned for an axis name other than `time`, an alias for `time`, or any other axis supported in the context of other requirements classes (such as spatial and general scaling).
^|F |For a regularly gridded coverage, the resolution (the distance between two samples along that dimension) for each of the listed dimension(s) SHALL correspond to the specified value.
^|G |For an irregularly gridded coverage, the distance between two samples along each of the listed dimension(s) SHALL be at minimum the value specified as the resolution for the corresponding dimension.
^|H |For a non-gridded coverage, when explicitly listing each dimension, the distance between two samples along each of the listed dimension(s) SHALL be at minimum the value specified as the resolution
for the corresponding dimension.
|===

[[scaling-temporal-resampling-recommendation]]
==== Recommendation for resampling implementation guidance

This Core part of the OGC API - Coverages Standard does not define a mechanism for the client to request a specific interpolation method.
However, the following recommendation provides guidance for implementations such as some important considerations to take into account when performing interpolation.
This guidance applies whether the resampling is performed as a result of the use of the scaling query parameters by the client,
or for automatic resampling in order to avoid returning too much data (as described in the downsampling permission below).

This guidance also applies to interpolation which could also be performed by clients.
The detailed information provided by the server in the collection description and the collection logical schema provides useful information
the `x-ogc-variableType` of a particular field, allowing to select a proper interpolation method.

[[rec_coverage_scaling-temporal-interpolation]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Recommendation {counter:per-id}* |*/rec/scaling-temporal/interpolation*
^|A | Implementations SHOULD NOT perform interpolation using a method other than _nearest neighbor_ for fields of a variable type other than `continuous`.
^|B | Implementations SHOULD use the best available interpolation method which will not degrade response time or put too much strain on the server resources.
|===

==== Downsampling permission

[[per_coverage_scaling-temporal-permission]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Permission {counter:per-id}* |*/per/coverage-scaling-temporal/downsampling*
^|A |In the case where a response to a request without a `resolution` parameter would be larger than an advertised server limit, an implementation
MAY automatically downsample the coverage to a suitable resolution instead of returning a 4xx client error.
|===

NOTE: A client retrieving a coverage from an implementation advertising support for this "Temporal Scaling" requirements class should explicitly use `resolution=time()` if it wants to ensure
retrieving the coverage in its native temporal resolution and prefers receiving an error instead of a downsampled version of the data.

[[scaling-temporal-parameter-aliases-recommendation]]
==== Recommendation for `time` dimension aliases

For convenience, this Standard recommends that Implementations recognize the different case variation and the shorthand `t` as an alias for the `time` dimension.
Generic clients intended to be interoperable with all Implementations of this Standard should not use these aliases,
but should always use `time` to refer to the primary temporal dimension as specified in the above requirement.

[[rec_coverage_scaling-temporal-aliases]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Recommendation {counter:rec-id}* |*/rec/scaling-temporal/resolution-temporal-aliases*
^|A | The axis names `t` (lowercase/uppercase) and `Time` case variation SHOULD be interpreted as aliases for `time` (the primary temporal dimension).
|===

IMPORTANT: To ensure interoperability, clients should always use the prescribed primary temporal axis name (`time`) and not rely on any of the aliases.

==== Permission to support legacy scaling query parameters

[[per_coverage_scaling-temporal-permission-legacy]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Permission {counter:per-id}* |*/per/coverage-scaling-temporal/legacy*
^|A |Implementations MAY additionally support the `scale-factor` and `scale-axes` legacy query parameters expressing resolution as the factor by which the data's native resolution has been downsampled (a factor of 2 meaning two times coarser).
^|B |Implementations MAY additionally support the `scale-size` legacy query parameter expressing the number of samples expected in the output for each dimension.
|===

IMPORTANT: To ensure interoperability, clients should use the `resolution` query parameter rather than the legacy ones.
