standard/requirements/requirements_class_coverage_subset.adoc, before:

[[rc-subsetting-table]]
[cols="1,4",width="90%"]
|===
2+|*Requirements Class*
2+|http://www.opengis.net/spec/ogcapi-coverages-1/1.0/req/subsetting
|Target type |Web API
|Dependency  |http://www.opengis.net/spec/ogcapi-coverages-1/1.0/req/core
|===

=== Requirements

[[bbox-parameter]]
==== Parameter `bbox`

[[bbox-definition]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Requirement {counter:req-id}* |*/req/subset/rc-bbox-definition*
^|A|The coverage resource SHALL support a `bbox` parameter representing a spatial area to subset.
^|B|The bounding box SHALL be provided as four or six numbers, depending on whether the coordinate reference system includes a vertical axis (height or depth):

* Lower left corner, coordinate axis 1
* Lower left corner, coordinate axis 2
* Minimum value, coordinate axis 3 (optional)
* Upper right corner, coordinate axis 1
* Upper right corner, coordinate axis 2
* Maximum value, coordinate axis 3 (optional)

^|C|If the bounding box consists of four numbers, the coordinate reference system of the values SHALL be interpreted as WGS 84 longitude/latitude (http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84) unless a different coordinate reference system is specified in a parameter `bbox-crs`.
^|D|If the bounding box consists of six numbers, the coordinate reference system of the values SHALL be interpreted as WGS 84 longitude/latitude/ellipsoidal height (http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/0/CRS84h) unless a different coordinate reference system is specified in a parameter `bbox-crs`.
^|E|Only the portion of the coverage within the specified boundings box SHALL be part of the response, performing a trim subsetting operation.
^|F|If a `bbox` parameter is specified requesting a coverage without any spatial dimension, the parameter SHALL either be ignored, or a 4xx client error generated.
^|G|For a bounding box specified in a geographic CRS, a bounding box where the first longitude value is larger than the second longitude value SHALL be interpreted as crossing the anti-meridian.
|===

The bounding box for WGS 84 longitude/latitude is, in most cases, the sequence of minimum longitude, minimum latitude, maximum longitude and maximum latitude.
However, in cases where the box spans the anti-meridian (180th meridian) the first value (west-most box edge) is larger than the third value (east-most box edge).

.The bounding box of the New Zealand Exclusive Economic Zone
=================
The bounding box of the New Zealand Exclusive Economic Zone in WGS84 (from 160.6°E to 170°W and from 55.95°S to 25.89°S) would be represented in JSON as `[ 160.6, -55.95, -170, -25.89 ]` and in a query as `bbox=160.6,-55.95,-170,-25.89`.
=================

Note that the server should return an error if a latitude value of `160.0` is used.

If the vertical axis is included, the third and the sixth number are the bottom and the top of the 3-dimensional bounding box.

[[bbox-crs-parameter]]
==== Parameter `bbox-crs`

[[bbox-crs-definition]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Requirement {counter:req-id}* |*/req/subsetting/bbox-crs*
^|A|The coverage resource SHALL support a `bbox-crs` parameter specifying the CRS used for the `bbox` parameter.
^|B|For Earth centric data, the implementation SHALL support http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84 as a value.
^|C|If the bbox-crs is not indicated http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84 SHALL be assumed.
^|D|The native CRS (`storageCRS`) SHALL be supported as a value. Other conformance classes may allow additional values (see `crs` parameter definition).
^|E|The CRS expressed as URIs or as safe CURIEs SHALL be supported.
^|F|If the bbox parameter is not used, the `bbox-crs` SHALL be ignored.
|===

[[datetime-parameter-subset-requirements]]
==== Parameter `datetime`

[[datetime-definition]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Requirement {counter:req-id}* |*/req/subsetting/datetime*
^|A |The implementation SHALL support a `datetime` parameter expressed corresponding to either a date-time instant or a time interval, conforming to the following syntax (using link:https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5234[ABNF]):

[source]
----
interval-closed     = date-time "/" date-time
interval-open-start = [".."] "/" date-time
interval-open-end   = date-time "/" [".."]
interval            = interval-closed / interval-open-start / interval-open-end
datetime            = date-time / interval
----
The syntax of `date-time` is specified by link:https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3339#section-5.6[RFC 3339, 5.6].
^|B |Only the portions of the coverage within the specified interval SHALL be part of coverage response, performing a trim operation for an interval or a slicing operation for an instant.
^|C |The implementation SHALL support a double-dot (`..`) or an empty string for the start/end as indicating an unbounded or half-bounded interval (only having a start or end).
^|D |If a `datetime` parameter is specified requesting a coverage without any temporal dimension, the parameter SHALL either be ignored, or a 4xx client error generated.
|===

[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|====
| Note | ISO 8601-2 distinguishes unbounded start/end timestamps (double-dot) and unknown start/end timestamps (empty string). For queries, an unspecified start/end has the same effect as an unbounded start/end.
|====

.A date-time
=================
February 12, 2018, 23:20:52 GMT:

`datetime=2018-02-12T23:20:52Z`
=================

For resources with a temporal property that is a timestamp (like `lastUpdate`), a date-time value would match all resources where the temporal property is identical.

For resources with a temporal property that is a date or a time interval, a date-time value would match all resources where the timestamp is on that day or within the time interval.

.Intervals
=================
February 12, 2018, 00:00:00 GMT to March 18, 2018, 12:31:12 GMT:

`datetime=2018-02-12T00:00:00Z/2018-03-18T12:31:12Z`

February 12, 2018, 00:00:00 UTC or later:

`datetime=2018-02-12T00:00:00Z/..`

March 18, 2018, 12:31:12 UTC or earlier:

`datetime=../2018-03-18T12:31:12Z`
=================

[[subset-parameter-subset-requirements]]
==== Parameter `subset`

[[req_coverage_subset-definition]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Requirement {counter:req-id}* |*/req/subsetting/subset*
^|A |The operation SHALL support a parameter `subset` with the following characteristics (using an Extended Backus Naur Form (EBNF) fragment):

[source,EBNF]
----
  SubsetSpec:       "subset"=axisName(intervalOrPoint)
  axisName:         {text}
  intervalOrPoint:  interval \| point
  interval:         low : high
  low:              point \| *
  high:             point \| *
  point:            {number} \| "{text}"

  Where:
     \" = double quote = ASCII code 0x42,
     {number} is an integer or floating-point number, and
     {text} is some general ASCII text (such as a time and date notation in ISO 8601).
----
^|B |The axis name SHALL correspond to one of the axis of the Coordinate Reference System (CRS) of the target resource or else return a 400 status code.
^|C |If the _intervalOrPoint_ values fall entirely outside the range of valid values defined for the identified axis, a 204 status code SHALL be returned
^|D |For a CRS where an axis can wrap around, such as subsetting across the dateline (anti-meridian) in a geographic CRS, a `low` value greater than `high` SHALL
be supported to indicate an extent crossing that wrapping point.
^|E |Only that part of the coverage that falls within the bounds of the subset expression SHALL be returned.
^|F |If a lower limit of the subset expression is populated with an asterix "*", then the minimum extent of the resource along that axis SHALL be selected.
^|G |If a upper limit of the subset expression is populated with an asterix "*", then the maximum extent of the resource along that axis SHALL be selected.
|===

NOTE: When the _intervalOrPoint_ values fall partially outside of the range of valid values defined by the CRS for the identified axis,
the service is expected to return the non-empty portion of the coverage resulting from the subset.
For subsetting on the range set, and for coverage media types with no geo-referencing mechanisms (e.g. PNG), NO_DATA values or transparency should be used.
If a georeferencing mechanism is available within the negotiated media type, the service could decide whether to use NO_DATA values
or simply return the properly geo-referenced values within the domain set.

==== Parameter `subset-crs`

[[req_coverage_subset-subset-crs]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Requirement {counter:req-id}* |*/req/subsetting/subset-crs*
^|A |The coverage retrieval operation SHALL support a parameter `subset-crs` with the characteristics identifying the CRS in which the `subset` parameter is specified with a URI or safe CURIE.
^|B |For Earth centric data, http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84 as a value SHALL be supported.
^|C |If the `subset-crs` is not indicated, http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84 SHALL be assumed.
^|D |The native CRS (`storageCRS`) SHALL be supported as a value. Other requirements classes may allow additional values (see `crs` parameter definition).
^|E |CRSs expressed as URIs or as safe CURIEs SHALL be supported.
^|F |If no `subset` parameter referring to an axis of the CRS is used, the `subset-crs` SHALL be ignored.
|===

==== Permission for Slicing Sparse Dimensions

[[per_slice_sparse_dimension]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Permission {counter:per-id}* |*/per/subsetting/slice-sparse-dimension*
^|A |The empty portions in a coverage resulting from a slice operation on an axis (e.g. time), combined with a trimming operations on other axes (e.g. latitude and longitude)
 which would either be empty or not cover the full extent of the trim operation MAY be filled with data values from the same trim operation
 combined with a slicing operation on a different value of the slicing axis which would return non-empty values.
 For example, the closest or last previous time for which data is available for a certain geospatial extent may be returned.
 An Earth Observation use case for this permission is to allow retrieving a slice of the last available imagery on or before a certain date,
 taking into account that a certain geographic area may only be observed every few days.
^|B |This permission applies to both explicit slice operations using subset, as well as to implicit slicing from requesting an output format only supporting
 a lower dimensionality than the data (e.g. requesting a 2D image from a 3D coverage as PNG or GeoTIFF).
^|C |A query parameter defined by a custom or standardized extension MAY be made available to enable, disable or alter that behavior.
|===

Commit message:

Additional fixes - typos - adding requirements for response headers (Content-Crs:, Content-Bbox:), matching Features ans Maps - clarifying `crs`, `storageCRS` and adding missing `storageCRSExtent` property in /collections/{collectionId} - adding requirement in Core about supporting `scale-factor=1` - adding recommendation for limits - adding coverage-scenes links - removed no longer relevant text in CIS JSON - removed remaining not applicable content in subset, clarified remaining s/target resource/coverage resource

standard/requirements/requirements_class_coverage_subset.adoc, after:

[[rc-subsetting-table]]
[cols="1,4",width="90%"]
|===
2+|*Requirements Class*
2+|http://www.opengis.net/spec/ogcapi-coverages-1/1.0/req/subsetting
|Target type |Web API
|Dependency  |http://www.opengis.net/spec/ogcapi-coverages-1/1.0/req/core
|===

=== Requirements

[[bbox-parameter]]
==== Parameter `bbox`

[[bbox-definition]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Requirement {counter:req-id}* |*/req/subset/rc-bbox-definition*
^|A|The coverage resource SHALL support a `bbox` parameter representing a spatial area to subset.
^|B|The bounding box SHALL be provided as four or six numbers, depending on whether the coordinate reference system includes a vertical axis (height or depth):

* Lower left corner, coordinate axis 1
* Lower left corner, coordinate axis 2
* Minimum value, coordinate axis 3 (optional)
* Upper right corner, coordinate axis 1
* Upper right corner, coordinate axis 2
* Maximum value, coordinate axis 3 (optional)

^|C|If the bounding box consists of four numbers, the coordinate reference system of the values SHALL be interpreted as WGS 84 longitude/latitude (http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84) unless a different coordinate reference system is specified in a parameter `bbox-crs`.
^|D|If the bounding box consists of six numbers, the coordinate reference system of the values SHALL be interpreted as WGS 84 longitude/latitude/ellipsoidal height (http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/0/CRS84h) unless a different coordinate reference system is specified in a parameter `bbox-crs`.
^|E|Only the portion of the coverage within the specified boundings box SHALL be part of the response, performing a trim subsetting operation.
^|F|If a `bbox` parameter is specified requesting a coverage without any spatial dimension, the parameter SHALL either be ignored, or a 4xx client error generated.
^|G|For a bounding box specified in a geographic CRS, a bounding box where the first longitude value is larger than the second longitude value SHALL be interpreted as crossing the anti-meridian.
|===

The bounding box for WGS 84 longitude/latitude is, in most cases, the sequence of minimum longitude, minimum latitude, maximum longitude and maximum latitude.
However, in cases where the box spans the anti-meridian (180th meridian) the first value (west-most box edge) is larger than the third value (east-most box edge).

.The bounding box of the New Zealand Exclusive Economic Zone
=================
The bounding box of the New Zealand Exclusive Economic Zone in WGS84 (from 160.6°E to 170°W and from 55.95°S to 25.89°S) would be represented in JSON as `[ 160.6, -55.95, -170, -25.89 ]` and in a query as `bbox=160.6,-55.95,-170,-25.89`.
=================

Note that the server should return an error if a latitude value of `160.0` is used.

If the vertical axis is included, the third and the sixth number are the bottom and the top of the 3-dimensional bounding box.

[[bbox-crs-parameter]]
==== Parameter `bbox-crs`

[[bbox-crs-definition]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Requirement {counter:req-id}* |*/req/subsetting/bbox-crs*
^|A|The coverage resource SHALL support a `bbox-crs` parameter specifying the CRS used for the `bbox` parameter.
^|B|For Earth centric data, the implementation SHALL support http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84 as a value.
^|C|If the bbox-crs is not indicated http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84 SHALL be assumed.
^|D|The native CRS (`storageCRS`) SHALL be supported as a value. Other conformance classes may allow additional values (see `crs` parameter definition).
^|E|The CRS expressed as URIs or as safe CURIEs SHALL be supported.
^|F|If the bbox parameter is not used, the `bbox-crs` SHALL be ignored.
|===

[[datetime-parameter-subset-requirements]]
==== Parameter `datetime`

[[datetime-definition]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Requirement {counter:req-id}* |*/req/subsetting/datetime*
^|A |The implementation SHALL support a `datetime` parameter expressed corresponding to either a date-time instant or a time interval, conforming to the following syntax (using link:https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5234[ABNF]):

[source]
----
interval-closed     = date-time "/" date-time
interval-open-start = [".."] "/" date-time
interval-open-end   = date-time "/" [".."]
interval            = interval-closed / interval-open-start / interval-open-end
datetime            = date-time / interval
----
The syntax of `date-time` is specified by link:https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3339#section-5.6[RFC 3339, 5.6].
^|B |Only the portions of the coverage within the specified interval SHALL be part of coverage response, performing a trim operation for an interval or a slicing operation for an instant.
^|C |The implementation SHALL support a double-dot (`..`) or an empty string for the start/end as indicating an unbounded or half-bounded interval (only having a start or end).
^|D |If a `datetime` parameter is specified requesting a coverage without any temporal dimension, the parameter SHALL either be ignored, or a 4xx client error generated.
|===

[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|====
| Note | ISO 8601-2 distinguishes unbounded start/end timestamps (double-dot) and unknown start/end timestamps (empty string). For queries, an unspecified start/end has the same effect as an unbounded start/end.
|====

.A date-time
=================
February 12, 2018, 23:20:52 GMT:

`datetime=2018-02-12T23:20:52Z`
=================

.Intervals
=================
February 12, 2018, 00:00:00 GMT to March 18, 2018, 12:31:12 GMT:

`datetime=2018-02-12T00:00:00Z/2018-03-18T12:31:12Z`

February 12, 2018, 00:00:00 UTC or later:

`datetime=2018-02-12T00:00:00Z/..`

March 18, 2018, 12:31:12 UTC or earlier:

`datetime=../2018-03-18T12:31:12Z`
=================

[[subset-parameter-subset-requirements]]
==== Parameter `subset`

[[req_coverage_subset-definition]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Requirement {counter:req-id}* |*/req/subsetting/subset*
^|A |The operation SHALL support a parameter `subset` with the following characteristics (using an Extended Backus Naur Form (EBNF) fragment):

[source,EBNF]
----
  SubsetSpec:       "subset"=axisName(intervalOrPoint)
  axisName:         {text}
  intervalOrPoint:  interval \| point
  interval:         low : high
  low:              point \| *
  high:             point \| *
  point:            {number} \| "{text}"

  Where:
     \" = double quote = ASCII code 0x42,
     {number} is an integer or floating-point number, and
     {text} is some general ASCII text (such as a time and date notation in ISO 8601).
----
^|B |The axis name SHALL correspond to one of the axis of the Coordinate Reference System (CRS) of the coverage or else return a 400 status code.
^|C |If the _intervalOrPoint_ values fall entirely outside the range of valid values defined for the identified axis, a 204 status code SHALL be returned
^|D |For a CRS where an axis can wrap around, such as subsetting across the dateline (anti-meridian) in a geographic CRS, a `low` value greater than `high` SHALL
be supported to indicate an extent crossing that wrapping point.
^|E |Only that part of the coverage that falls within the bounds of the subset expression SHALL be returned.
^|F |If a lower limit of the subset expression is populated with an asterisk `*`, then the minimum extent of the coverage along that axis SHALL be selected.
^|G |If a upper limit of the subset expression is populated with an asterisk `*`, then the maximum extent of the coverage along that axis SHALL be selected.
|===

NOTE: When the _intervalOrPoint_ values fall partially outside of the range of valid values defined by the CRS for the identified axis,
the service is expected to return the non-empty portion of the coverage resulting from the subset.
For subsetting on the range set, and for coverage media types with no geo-referencing mechanisms (e.g. PNG), NO_DATA values or transparency should be used.
If a georeferencing mechanism is available within the negotiated media type, the service could decide whether to use NO_DATA values
or simply return the properly geo-referenced values within the domain set.

==== Parameter `subset-crs`

[[req_coverage_subset-subset-crs]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Requirement {counter:req-id}* |*/req/subsetting/subset-crs*
^|A |The coverage retrieval operation SHALL support a parameter `subset-crs` with the characteristics identifying the CRS in which the `subset` parameter is specified with a URI or safe CURIE.
^|B |For Earth centric data, http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84 as a value SHALL be supported.
^|C |If the `subset-crs` is not indicated, http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84 SHALL be assumed.
^|D |The native CRS (`storageCRS`) SHALL be supported as a value. Other requirements classes may allow additional values (see `crs` parameter definition).
^|E |CRSs expressed as URIs or as safe CURIEs SHALL be supported.
^|F |If no `subset` parameter referring to an axis of the CRS is used, the `subset-crs` SHALL be ignored.
|===

==== Permission for Slicing Sparse Dimensions

[[per_slice_sparse_dimension]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Permission {counter:per-id}* |*/per/subsetting/slice-sparse-dimension*
^|A |The empty portions in a coverage resulting from a slice operation on an axis (e.g. time), combined with a trimming operations on other axes (e.g. latitude and longitude)
 which would either be empty or not cover the full extent of the trim operation MAY be filled with data values from the same trim operation
 combined with a slicing operation on a different value of the slicing axis which would return non-empty values.
 For example, the closest or last previous time for which data is available for a certain geospatial extent may be returned.
 An Earth Observation use case for this permission is to allow retrieving a slice of the last available imagery on or before a certain date,
 taking into account that a certain geographic area may only be observed every few days.
^|B |This permission applies to both explicit slice operations using subset, as well as to implicit slicing from requesting an output format only supporting
 a lower dimensionality than the data (e.g. requesting a 2D image from a 3D coverage as PNG or GeoTIFF).
^|C |A query parameter defined by a custom or standardized extension MAY be made available to enable, disable or alter that behavior.
|===
