standard/requirements/requirements_class_crs.adoc, before:

[[rc_table_crs]]
[cols="1,4",width="90%"]
|===
2+|*Requirements Class Coordinate Reference System*
2+|http://www.opengis.net/spec/ogcapi-coverages-1/1.0/req/crs
|Target type |Web API
|Dependency  |http://www.opengis.net/spec/ogcapi-coverages-1/1.0/req/core
|===

=== Requirements

==== Parameter `crs`
A successful GET response is described in the Coverages API core class (http://www.opengis.net/spec/ogcapi-coverages-1/1.0/conf/core).

[[req_crs_crs-definition]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Requirement {counter:req-id}* |*/req/crs/crs-definition*
^|A |The coverage retrieval operation SHALL support a parameter `crs` with the characteristics defined in the OpenAPI Specification 3.0 fragment
[source,YAML]
----
  crs:
    name: crs
    in: query
    description: A coordinate reference system of the coverage response. A list of all supported CRS values can be found under the collection metadata.
    required: false
    schema:
      type: string
    example: http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84
----
^|B |Any of the CRSs listed in the collection (or collections) description SHALL be supported. If the list of supported CRS is not present, only http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84 SHALL be supported.
^|C |If the spatial subsetting requirements class is supported, the `bbox-crs` and the `subset-crs` SHALL additionally support value specified in the crs parameter.
^|D |CRS expressed as URIs or as safe CURIEs SHALL be supported.
^|E |The content of that response SHALL be consistent with the requested CRS.
^|F |If the parameter value for `crs` is not valid for requested coverage, the status code of the response SHALL be 400.
|===

NOTE: When no `crs` parameters are specified, the default output CRS is the native (`storage CRS`), which is CRS84 if none is specified (see <<rc_core,Core requirement class>> for additional details).

NOTE: A CURIE `{authority}[-{objectType}]:{id}` would map to the following OGC URI: `http://www.opengis.net/def/{objectType}/{authority}/0/{id}`. If `-{objectType}` is missing, the default object type is crs.

See how to determine the native (storage) CRS for the coverage in <<rc_core>> respectively.

NOTE: The default CRS of the BBOX is http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84 but the default CRS of the coverage is the native (storage) CRS

[[per_crs_crs-curie]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Permission {counter:per-id}* |*/per/crs/crs-curie*
^|A |Un-safe CURIE without square brackets MAY be supported.
|===

NOTE: This makes the notation compatible with WCS.

Commit message:

7-core, 8-subsetting: Improvements - This attempts to start addressing a number of issues such as #198 #209 - Removing some requirements parts which are already specified in Common - Part 2 - Updated to reflect improved grid descriptions in Common - Part 2 allowing custom bounds

standard/requirements/requirements_class_crs.adoc, after:

[[rc_table_crs]]
[cols="1,4",width="90%"]
|===
2+|*Requirements Class Coordinate Reference System*
2+|http://www.opengis.net/spec/ogcapi-coverages-1/1.0/req/crs
|Target type |Web API
|Dependency  |http://www.opengis.net/spec/ogcapi-coverages-1/1.0/req/core
|===

=== Requirements

==== Parameter `crs`
A successful GET response is described in the Coverages API core class (http://www.opengis.net/spec/ogcapi-coverages-1/1.0/conf/core).

[[req_crs_crs-definition]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Requirement {counter:req-id}* |*/req/crs/crs-definition*
^|A |The coverage retrieval operation SHALL support a parameter `crs` with the characteristics defined in the OpenAPI Specification 3.0 fragment
[source,YAML]
----
  crs:
    name: crs
    in: query
    description: A coordinate reference system of the coverage response. A list of all supported CRS values can be found under the collection metadata.
    required: false
    schema:
      type: string
    example: http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84
----
^|B |The list of supported output CRSs SHALL be included in the `crs` property of the collection description at `/collections/{collectionId}` as URIs.
All of these listed CRSs SHALL be supported as output CRSs by the server for that collection.
If the list of supported CRS is not present, the native CRS (`storageCrs` in the collection description) SHALL be supported, which defaults to
`http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84` if not specified.
^|C |If the spatial subsetting requirements class is supported, the `bbox-crs` and the `subset-crs` SHALL additionally support the value specified in the `crs` parameter.
^|D |CRS expressed as URIs or as safe CURIEs SHALL be supported.
^|E |The content of that response SHALL be consistent with the requested CRS.
^|F |If the parameter value for `crs` is not valid for requested coverage, the status code of the response SHALL be 400.
|===

NOTE: When no `crs` parameters are specified, the default output CRS is the native (`storage CRS`), which is CRS84 if none is specified (see <<rc_core,Core requirement class>> for additional details).

NOTE: A CURIE `{authority}[-{objectType}]:{id}` would map to the following OGC URI: `http://www.opengis.net/def/{objectType}/{authority}/0/{id}`. If `-{objectType}` is missing, the default object type is crs.

See how to determine the native (storage) CRS for the coverage in <<rc_core>> respectively.

NOTE: The default CRS of the BBOX is http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84 but the default CRS of the coverage is the native (storage) CRS

[[per_crs_crs-curie]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Permission {counter:per-id}* |*/per/crs/crs-curie*
^|A |Un-safe CURIE without square brackets MAY be supported.
|===

NOTE: This makes the notation compatible with WCS.
