standard/requirements/requirements_class_coverage_subset_temporal.adoc, before:

[[rc_subsetting-temporal-table]]
[cols="1,4",width="90%"]
|===
2+|*Requirements Class*
2+|http://www.opengis.net/spec/ogcapi-coverages-1/1.0/req/subsetting-temporal
|Target type |Web API
|Dependency  |http://www.opengis.net/spec/ogcapi-coverages-1/1.0/req/core
|===

=== Requirements

[[subset-temporal-parameter-subset-requirements]]
==== Parameter `subset`

[[req_coverage_subset_temporal-definition]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Requirement {counter:req-id}* |*/req/subsetting-temporal/subset*
^|A |The coverage request operation SHALL support a parameter `subset` to subset the primary temporal dimension of the coverage (corresponding to the `temporal` section of the collection description's extent)
with the following characteristics (using an Extended Backus Naur Form (EBNF) fragment):

[source,EBNF]
----
  SubsetSpec:       "subset"=axisName(intervalOrPoint)
  axisName:         {text}
  intervalOrPoint:  interval \| point
  interval:         low : high
  low:              point \| *
  high:             point \| *
  point:            {number} \| "{text}"

  Where:
     \" = double quote = ASCII code 0x42,
     {number} is an integer or floating-point number, and
     {text} is some general ASCII text (such as a time and date notation in ISO 8601).
----

^|B   |Only that part of the coverage that falls within the bounds of the subset expression SHALL be returned.
^|C   |If a single point is provided for an axis, the coverage response SHALL be the result of a slicing operation for the dimension corresponding to that axis, reducing the dimension.
^|D   |If an interval is provided for an axis, the coverage response SHALL be the result of a trimming operation for the dimension corresponding to that axis, preserving the dimension.
^|E	|Axis name `time` SHALL be supported if the collection describes a temporal dimension in its extent.
^|F	|A 400 error status code SHALL be returned for an axis name other than `time`, an alias for `time`, or any other axis supported in the context of other requirements classes (such as spatial and general subsetting).
^|G	|If the _intervalOrPoint_ values fall entirely outside the range of valid values defined for the identified axis, a 204 or 404 status code SHALL be returned.
^|H   |For the `time` axis, coordinates SHALL be interpreted as values for the named axis of the `trs` specified in the collection's temporal extent, or Gregorian UTC time (as specified in RFC 3339) if it is not specified in the temporal extent.
^|I   |If the subset parameter includes the `time` dimension while the `datetime` parameter is also specified, the server SHALL return a 400 client error.
^|J   |If a lower limit of the subset interval is populated with an asterisk `*`, then the minimum extent of the coverage along that axis SHALL be selected.
^|K   |If a upper limit of the subset interval is populated with an asterisk `*`, then the maximum extent of the coverage along that axis SHALL be selected.
^|L	|Multiple subset parameters SHALL be interpreted, as if all dimension subsetting values were provided in a single subset parameter (comma separated)^1^.

2+|1 Example: subset=Lat(-90:90)&subset=Lon(-180:180)&subset=time("2018-02-12T23:20:52Z")&subset=atm_pressure_hpa(500) is equivalent to subset=Lat(-90:90),Lon(-180:180),time("2018-02-12T23:20:52Z"),atm_pressure_hpa(500)
|===

NOTE: When the _intervalOrPoint_ values fall partially outside of the range of valid values defined by the TRS for the identified axis,
the service is expected to return the non-empty portion of the coverage resulting from the subset.
For subsetting on the range set, and for coverage media types with no geo-referencing mechanisms (e.g. PNG), NO_DATA values or transparency should be used.
If a georeferencing mechanism is available within the negotiated media type, the service could decide whether to use NO_DATA values
or simply return the properly geo-referenced values within the domain set.

[[rec_coverage_subset-temporal-aliases]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Recommentation {counter:per-id}* |*/rec/subsetting-temporal/subset-crs-axis-aliases*
^|A | The axis names `t` and `Time` SHOULD be interpreted as aliases for `time` (the primary temporal dimension).
|===

IMPORTANT: To ensure interoperability, clients should always use the prescribed primary temporal axis name (`time`) and not rely on any of the aliases.

[[datetime-parameter-subset-requirements]]
==== Parameter `datetime`

[[datetime-definition]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Requirement {counter:req-id}* |*/req/subsetting-temporal/datetime*
^|A |The implementation SHALL support a `datetime` parameter expressed corresponding to either a date-time instant or a time interval, conforming to the following syntax (using link:https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5234[ABNF]):

[source]
----
interval-closed     = date-time "/" date-time
interval-open-start = [".."] "/" date-time
interval-open-end   = date-time "/" [".."]
interval            = interval-closed / interval-open-start / interval-open-end
datetime            = date-time / interval
----
The syntax of `date-time` is specified by link:https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3339#section-5.6[RFC 3339, 5.6].
^|B |Only the portions of the coverage within the specified interval SHALL be part of coverage response, performing a trim operation for an interval or a slicing operation for an instant.
^|C |The implementation SHALL support a double-dot (`..`) or an empty string for the start/end as indicating an unbounded or half-bounded interval (only having a start or end).
^|D |If a `datetime` parameter is specified requesting a coverage without any temporal dimension, the parameter SHALL either be ignored, or a 4xx client error generated.
|===

[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|====
| Note | ISO 8601-2 distinguishes unbounded start/end timestamps (double-dot) and unknown start/end timestamps (empty string). For queries, an unspecified start/end has the same effect as an unbounded start/end.
|====

.A date-time
=================
February 12, 2018, 23:20:52 GMT:

`datetime=2018-02-12T23:20:52Z`
=================

.Intervals
=================
February 12, 2018, 00:00:00 GMT to March 18, 2018, 12:31:12 GMT:

`datetime=2018-02-12T00:00:00Z/2018-03-18T12:31:12Z`

February 12, 2018, 00:00:00 UTC or later:

`datetime=2018-02-12T00:00:00Z/..`

March 18, 2018, 12:31:12 UTC or earlier:

`datetime=../2018-03-18T12:31:12Z`
=================

==== Permission for Slicing Sparse Dimensions

[[per_slice_sparse_dimension_temporal]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Permission {counter:per-id}* |*/per/subsetting-temporal/slice-sparse-dimension*
^|A |The empty portions in a coverage resulting from a slice operation on an axis (e.g. time), combined with a trimming operations on other axes (e.g. latitude and longitude)
 which would either be empty or not cover the full extent of the trim operation MAY be filled with data values from the same trim operation
 combined with a slicing operation on a different value of the slicing axis which would return non-empty values.
 For example, the closest or last previous time for which data is available for a certain geospatial extent may be returned.
 An Earth Observation use case for this permission is to allow retrieving a slice of the last available imagery on or before a certain date,
 taking into account that a certain geographic area may only be observed every few days.
^|B |This permission applies to both explicit slice operations using subset, as well as to implicit slicing from requesting an output format only supporting
 a lower dimensionality than the data (e.g. requesting a 2D image from a 3D coverage as PNG or GeoTIFF).
^|C |A query parameter defined by a custom or standardized extension MAY be made available to enable, disable or alter that behavior.
|===

Commit message:

Temporal Subsetting: Clarifying that `datetime` is a convenience parameter - Also some clarifications on relaxes RFC 3339 syntax and meaning of temporal end - This should complete addressing issue #194 - Partially addresses #202 - Partially addresses #212 - Partially addresses #213

standard/requirements/requirements_class_coverage_subset_temporal.adoc, after:

[[rc_subsetting-temporal-table]]
[cols="1,4",width="90%"]
|===
2+|*Requirements Class*
2+|http://www.opengis.net/spec/ogcapi-coverages-1/1.0/req/subsetting-temporal
|Target type |Web API
|Dependency  |http://www.opengis.net/spec/ogcapi-coverages-1/1.0/req/core
|===

=== Requirements

[[subset-temporal-parameter-subset-requirements]]
==== Query parameter `subset`

The `subset` parameter allows to retrieve temporal subset of a coverage by slicing or trimming the primary temporal dimension named `time`.
If this primary temporal dimension can be mapped to UTC and the Gregorian calendar, then the server needs to support RFC 3339 notation.
Implementations may also allow clients to omit any time components such as seconds, minutes, hours.
If this primary temporal dimension cannot be mapped to UTC / Gregorian calendar (e.g., geological time), then the collection description temporal property would specify a different `trs` defining the valid input.

When performing a slice operation, the slicing temporal isntant value is assumed to have no thickness.
When performing a trimming operation (specifying two temporal instants), the starting (first) temporal instant is taken exactly as-is with any omitted time components assumed to be 0,
whereas the ending (second) temporal instant is assumed to extend until the very end of that time component.
For example, `subset=time("2020-01-01")` is equivalent to `subset=time("2020-01-01T00:00:00.000Z")`, whereas `subset=time("2020-01-01":"2020-01-31")` is equivalent to
`subset=time("2020-01-01T00:00:00.000Z":"2020-01-31T23:59:59.999Z")`.

[[req_coverage_subset_temporal-definition]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Requirement {counter:req-id}* |*/req/subsetting-temporal/subset*
^|A |The coverage request operation SHALL support a parameter `subset` to subset the primary temporal dimension of the coverage (corresponding to the `temporal` section of the collection description's extent)
with the following characteristics (using an Extended Backus Naur Form (EBNF) fragment):

[source,EBNF]
----
  SubsetSpec:       "subset"=axisName(intervalOrPoint)
  axisName:         {text}
  intervalOrPoint:  interval \| point
  interval:         low : high
  low:              point \| *
  high:             point \| *
  point:            {number} \| "{text}"

  Where:
     \" = double quote = ASCII code 0x42,
     {number} is an integer or floating-point number, and
     {text} is some general ASCII text (such as a time and date notation in ISO 8601).
----

^|B   |Only that part of the coverage that falls within the bounds of the subset expression SHALL be returned.
^|C   |If a single point is provided for an axis, the coverage response SHALL be the result of a slicing operation for the dimension corresponding to that axis, reducing the dimension.
^|D   |If an interval is provided for an axis, the coverage response SHALL be the result of a trimming operation for the dimension corresponding to that axis, preserving the dimension.
^|E	|Axis name `time` SHALL be supported if the collection describes a temporal dimension in its extent.
^|F	|A 400 error status code SHALL be returned for an axis name other than `time`, an alias for `time`, or any other axis supported in the context of other requirements classes (such as spatial and general subsetting).
^|G	|If the _intervalOrPoint_ values fall entirely outside the range of valid values defined for the identified axis, a 204 or 404 status code SHALL be returned.
^|H   |For the `time` axis, coordinates SHALL be interpreted as values for the named axis of the `trs` specified in the collection's temporal extent, or Gregorian UTC time (as specified in RFC 3339) if it is not specified in the temporal extent.
^|I   |If the subset parameter includes the `time` dimension while the `datetime` parameter is also specified, the server SHALL return a 400 client error.
^|J   |If a lower limit of the subset interval is populated with an asterisk `*`, then the minimum extent of the coverage along that axis SHALL be selected.
^|K   |If a upper limit of the subset interval is populated with an asterisk `*`, then the maximum extent of the coverage along that axis SHALL be selected.
^|L	|Multiple subset parameters SHALL be interpreted, as if all dimension subsetting values were provided in a single subset parameter (comma separated)^1^.

2+|1 Example: subset=Lat(-90:90)&subset=Lon(-180:180)&subset=time("2018-02-12T23:20:52Z")&subset=atm_pressure_hpa(500) is equivalent to subset=Lat(-90:90),Lon(-180:180),time("2018-02-12T23:20:52Z"),atm_pressure_hpa(500)
|===

NOTE: When the _intervalOrPoint_ values fall partially outside of the range of valid values defined by the TRS for the identified axis,
the service is expected to return the non-empty portion of the coverage resulting from the subset.
For subsetting on the range set, and for coverage media types with no geo-referencing mechanisms (e.g. PNG), NO_DATA values or transparency should be used.
If a georeferencing mechanism is available within the negotiated media type, the service could decide whether to use NO_DATA values
or simply return the properly geo-referenced values within the domain set.

[[rec_coverage_subset-temporal-aliases]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Recommentation {counter:rec-id}* |*/rec/subsetting-temporal/subset-temporal-aliases*
^|A | The axis names `t` and `Time` SHOULD be interpreted as aliases for `time` (the primary temporal dimension).
|===

IMPORTANT: To ensure interoperability, clients should always use the prescribed primary temporal axis name (`time`) and not rely on any of the aliases.

[[per_coverage_subset-components-omission]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Permission {counter:per-id}* |*/per/subsetting-temporal/subset-components-omission*
^|A | Implementations MAY support the omission of any number of the last time components of RFC 3339 temporal instants.
In such cases, the implementations will interpret these omitted components as 0 for the start of an interval or a slicing instant, and as the latest possible values for the ending instant of a temporal interval.
^|B | Implementations MAY support the omission of the `Z` and time zone offset. In such cases, the implementations will interpret the temporal instant as UTC.
|===

[[datetime-parameter-subset-requirements]]
==== Query parameter `datetime`

The `datetime` convenience parameter maps to a trimming or slicing operation (which could also be expressed using `subset`).
When using a single temporal instant, the parameter corresponds to a slicing operation, whereas when using a pair of instants separated by a forward slash (`/`), the parameter corresponds to a trimming operation.
The temporal instants are specified using UTC and Gregorian calendar, based on RFC 3339, also allowing for omission of some temporal components as with `subset`.
For example, the query parameter `datetime=2020-01-01` is equivalent to `subset=time("2020-01-01")`, and the query parameter `datetime=2020-01-01/2020-01-31` is equivalent to `subset=time("2020-01-01":"2020-01-31")`.

[[datetime-definition]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Requirement {counter:req-id}* |*/req/subsetting-temporal/datetime*
^|A |The implementation SHALL support a `datetime` parameter expressed corresponding to either a date-time instant or a time interval, conforming to the following syntax (using link:https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5234[ABNF]):

[source]
----
interval-closed     = date-time "/" date-time
interval-open-start = [".."] "/" date-time
interval-open-end   = date-time "/" [".."]
interval            = interval-closed / interval-open-start / interval-open-end
datetime            = date-time / interval
----
The syntax of `date-time` is specified by link:https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3339#section-5.6[RFC 3339, 5.6].
^|B |Only the portions of the coverage within the specified interval SHALL be part of coverage response, performing a trim operation for an interval or a slicing operation for an instant.
^|C |The implementation SHALL support a double-dot (`..`) or an empty string for the start/end as indicating an unbounded or half-bounded interval (only having a start or end).
^|D |If a `datetime` parameter is specified requesting a coverage without any temporal dimension, the parameter SHALL either be ignored, or a 4xx client error generated.
|===

[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|====
| Note | ISO 8601-2 distinguishes unbounded start/end timestamps (double-dot) and unknown start/end timestamps (empty string). For queries, an unspecified start/end has the same effect as an unbounded start/end.
|====

.A date-time
=================
February 12, 2018, 23:20:52 GMT:

`datetime=2018-02-12T23:20:52Z`
=================

.Intervals
=================
February 12, 2018, 00:00:00 GMT to March 18, 2018, 12:31:12 GMT:

`datetime=2018-02-12T00:00:00Z/2018-03-18T12:31:12Z`

February 12, 2018, 00:00:00 UTC or later:

`datetime=2018-02-12T00:00:00Z/..`

March 18, 2018, 12:31:12 UTC or earlier:

`datetime=../2018-03-18T12:31:12Z`
=================

==== Permission for Slicing Sparse Dimensions

[[per_slice_sparse_dimension_temporal]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Permission {counter:per-id}* |*/per/subsetting-temporal/slice-sparse-dimension*
^|A |The empty portions in a coverage resulting from a slice operation on an axis (e.g. time), combined with a trimming operations on other axes (e.g. latitude and longitude)
 which would either be empty or not cover the full extent of the trim operation MAY be filled with data values from the same trim operation
 combined with a slicing operation on a different value of the slicing axis which would return non-empty values.
 For example, the closest or last previous time for which data is available for a certain geospatial extent may be returned.
 An Earth Observation use case for this permission is to allow retrieving a slice of the last available imagery on or before a certain date,
 taking into account that a certain geographic area may only be observed every few days.
^|B |This permission applies to both explicit slice operations using subset, as well as to implicit slicing from requesting an output format only supporting
 a lower dimensionality than the data (e.g. requesting a 2D image from a 3D coverage as PNG or GeoTIFF).
^|C |A query parameter defined by a custom or standardized extension MAY be made available to enable, disable or alter that behavior.
|===
