standard/requirements/requirements_class_cisjson.adoc, before:

[[rc_cisjson]]
[cols="1,4",width="90%"]
|===
2+|*Requirements Class*
2+|http://www.opengis.net/spec/ogcapi-coverages-1/1.0/req/cisjson
|Target type |Web API
|Dependency  |http://www.opengis.net/spec/ogcapi-coverages-1/1.0/req/core
|Dependency  |http://www.opengis.net/spec/CIS/1.1/req/json-coverage
|===

==== Requirements

[[requirements-class-cisjson-clause]]

===== CIS JSON Coverage representation

[[req_cisjson_coverage]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Requirement {counter:req-id}* |*/req/cisjson/coverage*
^|A |The coverage resource, as defined in the Core requirement class, SHALL support negotiating a CIS JSON response using the `application/json` media type.
^|B |The response SHALL be a CIS JSON document which validates against the CIS JSON schema https://github.com/opengeospatial/ogcapi-coverages/blob/master/standard/openapi/schemas/cis/coverage-schema.yaml[coverage-schema.yaml].
^|C |The coverage object response SHALL be of type _CoverageByDomainAndRange_ (not _CoverageByPartitioning_, the implementation can instead consider supporting the "Scenes" requirement class to present individual parts of a coverage).
|===

===== Profiling CIS components to include

[[rec_cisjson_profile]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Recommendation {counter:rec-id}* |*/rec/cisjson/profile*
^|A |The coverage request operation SHOULD support a `profile` query parameter allowing to select specific one or more CIS coverage components to include (domainset, rangetype, rangeset and/or metadata).
^|B |If supported, the response SHOULD only contain the selected element(s). For example, `../coverage?profile=domainset,rangetype` should only return the domain set and range type for the coverage.
^|C |If both this capability and subsetting are supported, the subsetting SHOULD be applied to both the domainset and the rangeset components of the response.
^|D |The implementation SHOULD return the metadata when explicitly requested to do so with the `profile` query parameter.
|===

Commit message:

Core; Subsetting; Coverage Tiles: Clarifications on Area vs. Point & Subsetting - This attempts to provide clarity related to #92 and https://github.com/opengeospatial/coverage-implementation-schema/issues/6   grounded in the well-defined Dimensionally Extended 9-Intersection Model (DE9-IM). - It explicitly avoids the ambiguous concepts of "pixel offset" and "center vs. corner" which do not make obvious that the values of a gridded coverage reflect a particular cell geometry. - The cell geometry of a gridded coverage is most often defined as an infinitely small point (span = 0) or an area whose side is as large as the resolution (span = 1).

standard/requirements/requirements_class_cisjson.adoc, after:

[[rc_cisjson]]
[cols="1,4",width="90%"]
|===
2+|*Requirements Class*
2+|http://www.opengis.net/spec/ogcapi-coverages-1/1.0/req/cisjson
|Target type |Web API
|Dependency  |http://www.opengis.net/spec/ogcapi-coverages-1/1.0/req/core
|Dependency  |http://www.opengis.net/spec/CIS/1.1/req/json-coverage
|===

==== Requirements

[[requirements-class-cisjson-clause]]

===== CIS JSON Coverage representation

[[req_cisjson_coverage]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Requirement {counter:req-id}* |*/req/cisjson/coverage*
^|A |The coverage resource, as defined in the Core requirement class, SHALL support negotiating a CIS JSON response using the `application/json` media type.
^|B |The response SHALL be a CIS JSON document which validates against the CIS JSON schema https://github.com/opengeospatial/ogcapi-coverages/blob/master/standard/openapi/schemas/cis/coverage-schema.yaml[coverage-schema.yaml].
^|C |The coverage object response SHALL be of type _CoverageByDomainAndRange_ (not _CoverageByPartitioning_, the implementation can instead consider supporting the "Scenes" requirement class to present individual parts of a coverage).
^|D |For a gridded coverage, the DomainSet SHALL be defined taking into consideration the geometry of the coverage cells, as per the following equation:

**span** = (_RegularAxis_ `upperBound` - _RegularAxis_ `lowerBound`) / _RegularAxis_ `resolution` - (_IndexAxis_ `upperBound` - _IndexAxis_ `lowerBound`)

where a _span_  of 1 indicates a coverage whose cell values represent an _area_, and a _span_ of 0 indicates a coverage whose cell values represent a _point_.
|===

===== Profiling CIS components to include

[[rec_cisjson_profile]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Recommendation {counter:rec-id}* |*/rec/cisjson/profile*
^|A |The coverage request operation SHOULD support a `profile` query parameter allowing to select specific one or more CIS coverage components to include (domainset, rangetype, rangeset and/or metadata).
^|B |If supported, the response SHOULD only contain the selected element(s). For example, `../coverage?profile=domainset,rangetype` should only return the domain set and range type for the coverage.
^|C |If both this capability and subsetting are supported, the subsetting SHOULD be applied to both the domainset and the rangeset components of the response.
^|D |The implementation SHOULD return the metadata when explicitly requested to do so with the `profile` query parameter.
|===
