standard/requirements/requirements_class_coverage_scaling_general.adoc, before:

[[rc_table_scaling_general]]
[cols="1,4",width="90%"]
|===
2+|*Requirements Class*
2+|http://www.opengis.net/spec/ogcapi-coverages-1/1.0/req/scaling-general
|Target type |Web API
|Dependency  |http://www.opengis.net/spec/ogcapi-coverages-1/1.0/req/core
|===

=== Requirements

==== Query parameter `resolution`

[[req_coverage_scaling-general-resolution]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Requirement {counter:req-id}* |*/req/coverage-scaling-general/resolution*
^|A |For data with a additional dimensions beyond spatial and a primary temporal dimension, the coverage retrieval operation SHALL support a `resolution` query parameter
specifying the resolution for the additional dimensions in positive units of those dimensions (as well as potentially supporting additional dimensions specified by other requirements classes).
^|B |The server SHALL support as a value for this parameter a comma-separated list of dimensions names followed by a resolution value in parentheses.
^|C |The server SHALL support an empty resolution value as referring to the native resolution for that particular dimension.
^|D |The server SHALL support as axis name all of the additional dimensions listed in the collection description's extent other than `spatial` and `temporal`.
^|E |For a regularly gridded coverage, the resolution (the distance between two samples along that dimension) for each of the listed dimension(s) SHALL correspond to the specified value.
^|F |For an irregularly gridded coverage, the distance between two samples along each of the listed dimension(s) SHALL be at minimum the value specified as the resolution for the corresponding dimension.
^|G |For a non-gridded coverage, when explicitly listing each dimension, the distance between two samples along each of the listed dimension(s) SHALL be at minimum the value specified as the resolution
for the corresponding dimension.
^|H |For additional dimensions where a `trs` of `https://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/0/GregorianDateTime` is specified, the implementation SHALL support an ISO 8601 period notation.
|===

==== Downsampling permission

[[per_coverage_scaling-general-permission]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Permission {counter:per-id}* |*/per/coverage-scaling-general/downsampling*
^|A |In the case where a response to a request without a `resolution` parameters would be larger than an advertised server limit, an implementation
MAY automatically downsample the coverage to a suitable resolution instead of returning a 4xx client error.
|===

NOTE: A client retrieving a coverage from an implementation advertising support for this "General Scaling" requirements class should explicitly use e.g., `resolution=pressure()` if it wants to ensure
retrieving the coverage in its native resolution and prefers receiving an error instead of a downsampled version of the data.

==== Permission to support legacy scaling query parameters

[[per_coverage_scaling-general-permission-legacy]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Permission {counter:per-id}* |*/per/coverage-scaling-general/legacy*
^|A |Implementations MAY additionally support the `scale-factor` and `scale-axes` legacy query parameters expressing resolution as the factor by which the data's native resolution has been downsampled (a factor of 2 meaning two times coarser).
^|B |Implementations MAY additionally support the `scale-size` legacy query parameter expressing the number of samples expected in the output for each dimension.
|===

IMPORTANT: To ensure interoperability, clients should use the `resolution` query parameter rather than the legacy ones.

Commit message:

Clarifying Scaling spatial axes for `resolution` parameter - Fixes #215 - Improved requirements - Added missing recommendations for aliases

standard/requirements/requirements_class_coverage_scaling_general.adoc, after:

[[rc_table_scaling_general]]
[cols="1,4",width="90%"]
|===
2+|*Requirements Class*
2+|http://www.opengis.net/spec/ogcapi-coverages-1/1.0/req/scaling-general
|Target type |Web API
|Dependency  |http://www.opengis.net/spec/ogcapi-coverages-1/1.0/req/core
|===

=== Requirements

==== Query parameter `resolution`

[[req_coverage_scaling-general-resolution]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Requirement {counter:req-id}* |*/req/coverage-scaling-general/resolution*
^|A |For data with a additional dimensions beyond spatial and a primary temporal dimension, the coverage retrieval operation SHALL support a `resolution` query parameter
specifying the resolution for the additional dimensions in positive units of those dimensions (as well as potentially supporting additional dimensions specified by other requirements classes).
^|B |The server SHALL support as a value for this parameter a comma-separated list of dimensions names followed by a resolution value in parentheses.
^|C |The server SHALL support an empty resolution value as referring to the native resolution for that particular dimension.
^|D |The server SHALL support as axis name all of the additional dimensions listed in the collection description's extent other than `spatial` and `temporal`.
^|E |A 400 error status code SHALL be returned if an axis name in the `resolution` parameter value does not correspond to an additional dimension described in the collection extent,
or to any other axis supported in the context of other requirements classes (such as spatial and temporal scaling).
^|F |For a regularly gridded coverage, the resolution (the distance between two samples along that dimension) for each of the listed dimension(s) SHALL correspond to the specified value.
^|G |For an irregularly gridded coverage, the distance between two samples along each of the listed dimension(s) SHALL be at minimum the value specified as the resolution for the corresponding dimension.
^|H |For a non-gridded coverage, when explicitly listing each dimension, the distance between two samples along each of the listed dimension(s) SHALL be at minimum the value specified as the resolution
for the corresponding dimension.
^|I |For additional dimensions where a `trs` of `https://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/0/GregorianDateTime` is specified, the implementation SHALL support an ISO 8601 period notation.
|===

==== Downsampling permission

[[per_coverage_scaling-general-permission]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Permission {counter:per-id}* |*/per/coverage-scaling-general/downsampling*
^|A |In the case where a response to a request without a `resolution` parameters would be larger than an advertised server limit, an implementation
MAY automatically downsample the coverage to a suitable resolution instead of returning a 4xx client error.
|===

NOTE: A client retrieving a coverage from an implementation advertising support for this "General Scaling" requirements class should explicitly use e.g., `resolution=pressure()` if it wants to ensure
retrieving the coverage in its native resolution and prefers receiving an error instead of a downsampled version of the data.

==== Permission to support legacy scaling query parameters

[[per_coverage_scaling-general-permission-legacy]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Permission {counter:per-id}* |*/per/coverage-scaling-general/legacy*
^|A |Implementations MAY additionally support the `scale-factor` and `scale-axes` legacy query parameters expressing resolution as the factor by which the data's native resolution has been downsampled (a factor of 2 meaning two times coarser).
^|B |Implementations MAY additionally support the `scale-size` legacy query parameter expressing the number of samples expected in the output for each dimension.
|===

IMPORTANT: To ensure interoperability, clients should use the `resolution` query parameter rather than the legacy ones.
