standard/requirements/requirements_class_coverage_subset_spatial.adoc, before:

[[rc_subsetting-spatial-table]]
[cols="1,4",width="90%"]
|===
2+|*Requirements Class*
2+|http://www.opengis.net/spec/ogcapi-coverages-1/1.0/req/subsetting-spatial
|Target type |Web API
|Dependency  |http://www.opengis.net/spec/ogcapi-coverages-1/1.0/req/core
|===

=== Requirements

[[subset-spatial-parameter-subset-requirements]]
==== Parameter `subset`

[[req_coverage_subset_spatial-definition]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Requirement {counter:req-id}* |*/req/subsetting-spatial/subset*
^|A |The coverage request operation SHALL support a parameter `subset` to subset one or more of the dimensions of the coverage (as described in the collection information)
with the following characteristics (using an Extended Backus Naur Form (EBNF) fragment):

[source,EBNF]
----
  SubsetSpec:       "subset"=axisName(intervalOrPoint)
  axisName:         {text}
  intervalOrPoint:  interval \| point
  interval:         low : high
  low:              point \| *
  high:             point \| *
  point:            {number} \| "{text}"

  Where:
     \" = double quote = ASCII code 0x42,
     {number} is an integer or floating-point number, and
     {text} is some general ASCII text (such as a time and date notation in ISO 8601).
----

^|B   |Only that part of the coverage that falls within the bounds of the subset expression SHALL be returned.
^|C   |If a single point is provided for an axis, the coverage response SHALL be the result of a slicing operation for the dimension corresponding to that axis, reducing the dimension.
^|D   |If an interval is provided for an axis, the coverage response SHALL be the result of a trimming operation for the dimension corresponding to that axis, preserving the dimension.
^|E	|For a geographic subsetting CRS, axis names `Lat` and `Lon` SHALL be supported which are to be interpreted as the best matching spatial axis in the subsetting CRS definition.
^|F	|For a projected subsetting CRS, axis names `E` and `N` SHALL be supported, which are to be interpreted as the best matching spatial axis in the subsetting CRS definition.
^|G	|If a third spatial dimension is supported (if the resource’s spatial extent bounding box is three dimensional), the implementation SHALL also support a `h` dimension.
      This is the elevation above the ellipsoid in EPSG:4979 or CRS84h for geographic CRS, and _z_ for 3D Cartesian CRS such as EPSG:4978, which are to be interpreted as the vertical axis in the CRS definition.
^|H	|A 400 error status code SHALL be returned if an axis name in the subset parameter value does not correspond to one of the axes of the subsetting CRS^2^, or to any other axis supported in the context of other requirements classes (such as spatial and general subsetting).
^|I	|If the _intervalOrPoint_ values fall entirely outside the range of valid values defined for the identified axis, a 204 or 404 status code SHALL be returned.
^|J   |For an axis that can wrap around, such as subsetting across the dateline (anti-meridian) in a geographic CRS, a `low` value greater than `high` SHALL
       be supported to indicate an extent crossing that wrapping point.
^|K   |For a spatial axis, coordinates SHALL be interpreted as values for the named axis of the CRS specified in the `subset-crs` parameter value or in https://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84 (https://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84h for vertical dimension) if the `subset-crs` parameter is missing.
^|L   |If the subset parameter is used with a spatial dimension while the `bbox` parameter is also specified, the server SHALL return a 400 client error.
^|M   |If a lower limit of the subset interval is populated with an asterisk `*`, then the minimum extent of the coverage along that axis SHALL be selected.
^|N   |If a upper limit of the subset interval is populated with an asterisk `*`, then the maximum extent of the coverage along that axis SHALL be selected.
^|O	|Multiple subset parameters SHALL be interpreted, as if all dimension subsetting values were provided in a single subset parameter (comma separated)^1^.

2+|1 Example: subset=Lat(-90:90)&subset=Lon(-180:180)&subset=time("2018-02-12T23:20:52Z")&subset=atm_pressure_hpa(500) is equivalent to subset=Lat(-90:90),Lon(-180:180),time("2018-02-12T23:20:52Z"),atm_pressure_hpa(500)
|===

NOTE: When the _intervalOrPoint_ values fall partially outside of the range of valid values defined by the CRS for the identified axis,
the service is expected to return the non-empty portion of the coverage resulting from the subset.
For subsetting on the range set, and for coverage media types with no geo-referencing mechanisms (e.g. PNG), NO_DATA values or transparency should be used.
If a georeferencing mechanism is available within the negotiated media type, the service could decide whether to use NO_DATA values
or simply return the properly geo-referenced values within the domain set.

[[rec_coverage_subset-crs-axis-aliases]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Recommentation {counter:per-id}* |*/rec/subsetting/subset-crs-axis-aliases*
^|A |Axis abbreviations as defined in the CRS definition SHOULD be interpreted as synonymous of the corresponding prescribed axis names, providing they do not conflict with other presribed axis names or the aliases described below.
^|B |`e` (in lowercase), `X` (lowercase/uppercase) or `Easting` (lowercase/uppercase) SHOULD be interpreted as synonymous of `E`.
^|C |`n` (in lowercase), `Y` (lowercase/uppercase) or `Northing` (lowercase/uppercase) SHOULD be interpreted as synonymous of `N`.
^|D |`Z`, (lowercase/uppercase) or `H` (uppercase) SHOULD be interpreted as synonymous of `h`.
^|D |`lon` (in lowercase), `Long` (lowercase/uppercase) or `Longitude` (lowercase/uppercase) SHOULD be interpreted as synonymous of `Lon`.
^|E |`lat` (in lowercase) or `Latitude` (lowercase/uppercase) SHOULD be interpreted as synonymous of `Lat`.
|===

IMPORTANT: To ensure interoperability, clients should always use the prescribed spatial axis names (`Lat`, `Lon`, `h`, `E`, `N`) and not rely on any of the aliases.

==== Parameter `subset-crs`

[[req_coverage_subset-subset-crs]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Requirement {counter:req-id}* |*/req/subsetting-spatial/subset-crs*
^|A |The coverage retrieval operation SHALL support a parameter `subset-crs` with the characteristics identifying the CRS in which the `subset` parameter is specified with a URI or safe CURIE.
^|B |For data referenced to Earth, http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84 SHALL be supported as a value.
^|C |If the `subset-crs` is not indicated, http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84 SHALL be assumed.
^|D |The native CRS (`storageCrs`) SHALL be supported as a value. Other requirements classes may allow additional values (see `crs` parameter definition).
^|E |CRSs expressed as URIs or as safe CURIEs SHALL be supported.
^|F |If no `subset` parameter refers to an axis of the CRS value specified for the `subset-crs` parameter, this parameter SHALL be ignored.
|===

[[bbox-parameter]]
==== Parameter `bbox`

The `bbox` parameter defines how to subset a coverage using a bounding box (in `bbox-crs` coordinates).
This parameter selects a spatial region consisting of any cells of the coverage whose cell geometry's interior intersects with the interior or boundary of the specified bounding box .
Individual cells may occupy an area on the ground (the value of the cell represents an area), or an infinitely small point (the value of the cell represents a point).

[[bbox-definition]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Requirement {counter:req-id}* |*/req/subsetting-spatial/bbox-definition*
^|A|The coverage resource SHALL support a `bbox` parameter representing a spatial area to subset.
^|B|The bounding box SHALL be provided as four or six numbers, depending on whether the coordinate reference system includes a vertical axis (height or depth):

* Lower left corner, coordinate axis 1
* Lower left corner, coordinate axis 2
* Minimum value, coordinate axis 3 (optional)
* Upper right corner, coordinate axis 1
* Upper right corner, coordinate axis 2
* Maximum value, coordinate axis 3 (optional)

^|C|If the bounding box consists of four numbers, the coordinate reference system of the values SHALL be interpreted as WGS 84 longitude/latitude (http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84) unless a different coordinate reference system is specified in a parameter `bbox-crs`.
^|D|If the bounding box consists of six numbers, the coordinate reference system of the values SHALL be interpreted as WGS 84 longitude/latitude/ellipsoidal height (http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/0/CRS84h) unless a different coordinate reference system is specified in a parameter `bbox-crs`.
^|E|Only the portion of the coverage within the specified boundings box SHALL be part of the response, performing a trim subsetting operation.
^|F|If a `bbox` parameter is specified requesting a coverage without any spatial dimension, the parameter SHALL either be ignored, or a 4xx client error generated.
^|G|For a bounding box specified in a geographic CRS, a bounding box where the first longitude value is larger than the second longitude value SHALL be interpreted as crossing the anti-meridian.
|===

The bounding box for WGS 84 longitude/latitude is, in most cases, the sequence of minimum longitude, minimum latitude, maximum longitude and maximum latitude.
However, in cases where the box spans the anti-meridian (180th meridian) the first value (west-most box edge) is larger than the third value (east-most box edge).

.The bounding box of the New Zealand Exclusive Economic Zone
=================
The bounding box of the New Zealand Exclusive Economic Zone in WGS84 (from 160.6°E to 170°W and from 55.95°S to 25.89°S) would be represented in JSON as `[ 160.6, -55.95, -170, -25.89 ]` and in a query as `bbox=160.6,-55.95,-170,-25.89`.
=================

Note that the server should return an error if a latitude value of `160.0` is used.

If the vertical axis is included, the third and the sixth number are the bottom and the top of the 3-dimensional bounding box.

[[bbox-crs-parameter]]
==== Parameter `bbox-crs`

[[bbox-crs-definition]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Requirement {counter:req-id}* |*/req/subsetting-spatial/bbox-crs*
^|A|The coverage resource SHALL support a `bbox-crs` parameter specifying the CRS used for the `bbox` parameter.
^|B|For data referenced to Earth, the implementation SHALL support http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84 as a value.
^|C|If the `bbox-crs` is not indicated http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84 SHALL be assumed.
^|D|The native CRS (`storageCrs`) SHALL be supported as a value. Other conformance classes may allow additional values (see `crs` parameter definition).
^|E|The CRS expressed as URIs or as safe CURIEs SHALL be supported.
^|F|If the `bbox` parameter is not used, the `bbox-crs` SHALL be ignored.
|===

==== Permission for Slicing Sparse Dimensions

[[per_slice_sparse_dimension_spatial]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Permission {counter:per-id}* |*/per/subsetting-spatial/slice-sparse-dimension*
^|A |The empty portions in a coverage resulting from a slice operation on an axis (e.g. time), combined with a trimming operations on other axes (e.g. latitude and longitude)
 which would either be empty or not cover the full extent of the trim operation MAY be filled with data values from the same trim operation
 combined with a slicing operation on a different value of the slicing axis which would return non-empty values.
 For example, the closest or last previous time for which data is available for a certain geospatial extent may be returned.
 An Earth Observation use case for this permission is to allow retrieving a slice of the last available imagery on or before a certain date,
 taking into account that a certain geographic area may only be observed every few days.
^|B |This permission applies to both explicit slice operations using subset, as well as to implicit slicing from requesting an output format only supporting
 a lower dimensionality than the data (e.g. requesting a 2D image from a 3D coverage as PNG or GeoTIFF).
^|C |A query parameter defined by a custom or standardized extension MAY be made available to enable, disable or alter that behavior.
|===

Commit message:

spatial subsetting: Clarify that `bbox` is a convenience parameter - Partially addresses #194

standard/requirements/requirements_class_coverage_subset_spatial.adoc, after:

[[rc_subsetting-spatial-table]]
[cols="1,4",width="90%"]
|===
2+|*Requirements Class*
2+|http://www.opengis.net/spec/ogcapi-coverages-1/1.0/req/subsetting-spatial
|Target type |Web API
|Dependency  |http://www.opengis.net/spec/ogcapi-coverages-1/1.0/req/core
|===

=== Requirements

[[subset-spatial-parameter-subset-requirements]]
==== Parameter `subset`

The `subset` selects a spatial region consisting of any cells of the coverage whose geometry's interior intersects with the interior or boundary of the specified spatial region.
Individual cells may occupy an area on the ground (the value of the cell represents an area), or an infinitely small point (the value of the cell represents a point).

[[req_coverage_subset_spatial-definition]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Requirement {counter:req-id}* |*/req/subsetting-spatial/subset*
^|A |The coverage request operation SHALL support a parameter `subset` to subset one or more of the dimensions of the coverage (as described in the collection information)
with the following characteristics (using an Extended Backus Naur Form (EBNF) fragment):

[source,EBNF]
----
  SubsetSpec:       "subset"=axisName(intervalOrPoint)
  axisName:         {text}
  intervalOrPoint:  interval \| point
  interval:         low : high
  low:              point \| *
  high:             point \| *
  point:            {number} \| "{text}"

  Where:
     \" = double quote = ASCII code 0x42,
     {number} is an integer or floating-point number, and
     {text} is some general ASCII text (such as a time and date notation in ISO 8601).
----

^|B   |Only that part of the coverage that falls within the bounds of the subset expression SHALL be returned.
^|C   |If a single point is provided for an axis, the coverage response SHALL be the result of a slicing operation for the dimension corresponding to that axis, reducing the dimension.
^|D   |If an interval is provided for an axis, the coverage response SHALL be the result of a trimming operation for the dimension corresponding to that axis, preserving the dimension.
^|E	|For a geographic subsetting CRS, axis names `Lat` and `Lon` SHALL be supported which are to be interpreted as the best matching spatial axis in the subsetting CRS definition.
^|F	|For a projected subsetting CRS, axis names `E` and `N` SHALL be supported, which are to be interpreted as the best matching spatial axis in the subsetting CRS definition.
^|G	|If a third spatial dimension is supported (if the resource’s spatial extent bounding box is three dimensional), the implementation SHALL also support a `h` dimension.
      This is the elevation above the ellipsoid in EPSG:4979 or CRS84h for geographic CRS, and _z_ for 3D Cartesian CRS such as EPSG:4978, which are to be interpreted as the vertical axis in the CRS definition.
^|H	|A 400 error status code SHALL be returned if an axis name in the subset parameter value does not correspond to one of the axes of the subsetting CRS^2^, or to any other axis supported in the context of other requirements classes (such as spatial and general subsetting).
^|I	|If the _intervalOrPoint_ values fall entirely outside the range of valid values defined for the identified axis, a 204 or 404 status code SHALL be returned.
^|J   |For an axis that can wrap around, such as subsetting across the dateline (anti-meridian) in a geographic CRS, a `low` value greater than `high` SHALL
       be supported to indicate an extent crossing that wrapping point.
^|K   |For a spatial axis, coordinates SHALL be interpreted as values for the named axis of the CRS specified in the `subset-crs` parameter value or in https://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84 (https://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84h for vertical dimension) if the `subset-crs` parameter is missing.
^|L   |If the subset parameter is used with a spatial dimension while the `bbox` parameter is also specified, the server SHALL return a 400 client error.
^|M   |If a lower limit of the subset interval is populated with an asterisk `*`, then the minimum extent of the coverage along that axis SHALL be selected.
^|N   |If a upper limit of the subset interval is populated with an asterisk `*`, then the maximum extent of the coverage along that axis SHALL be selected.
^|O	|Multiple subset parameters SHALL be interpreted, as if all dimension subsetting values were provided in a single subset parameter (comma separated)^1^.

2+|1 Example: subset=Lat(-90:90)&subset=Lon(-180:180)&subset=time("2018-02-12T23:20:52Z")&subset=atm_pressure_hpa(500) is equivalent to subset=Lat(-90:90),Lon(-180:180),time("2018-02-12T23:20:52Z"),atm_pressure_hpa(500)
|===

NOTE: When the _intervalOrPoint_ values fall partially outside of the range of valid values defined by the CRS for the identified axis,
the service is expected to return the non-empty portion of the coverage resulting from the subset.
For subsetting on the range set, and for coverage media types with no geo-referencing mechanisms (e.g. PNG), NO_DATA values or transparency should be used.
If a georeferencing mechanism is available within the negotiated media type, the service could decide whether to use NO_DATA values
or simply return the properly geo-referenced values within the domain set.

[[rec_coverage_subset-crs-axis-aliases]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Recommentation {counter:per-id}* |*/rec/subsetting/subset-crs-axis-aliases*
^|A |Axis abbreviations as defined in the CRS definition SHOULD be interpreted as synonymous of the corresponding prescribed axis names, providing they do not conflict with other presribed axis names or the aliases described below.
^|B |`e` (in lowercase), `X` (lowercase/uppercase) or `Easting` (lowercase/uppercase) SHOULD be interpreted as synonymous of `E`.
^|C |`n` (in lowercase), `Y` (lowercase/uppercase) or `Northing` (lowercase/uppercase) SHOULD be interpreted as synonymous of `N`.
^|D |`Z`, (lowercase/uppercase) or `H` (uppercase) SHOULD be interpreted as synonymous of `h`.
^|D |`lon` (in lowercase), `Long` (lowercase/uppercase) or `Longitude` (lowercase/uppercase) SHOULD be interpreted as synonymous of `Lon`.
^|E |`lat` (in lowercase) or `Latitude` (lowercase/uppercase) SHOULD be interpreted as synonymous of `Lat`.
|===

IMPORTANT: To ensure interoperability, clients should always use the prescribed spatial axis names (`Lat`, `Lon`, `h`, `E`, `N`) and not rely on any of the aliases.

==== Parameter `subset-crs`

[[req_coverage_subset-subset-crs]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Requirement {counter:req-id}* |*/req/subsetting-spatial/subset-crs*
^|A |The coverage retrieval operation SHALL support a parameter `subset-crs` with the characteristics identifying the CRS in which the `subset` parameter is specified with a URI or safe CURIE.
^|B |For data referenced to Earth, http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84 SHALL be supported as a value.
^|C |If the `subset-crs` is not indicated, http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84 SHALL be assumed.
^|D |The native CRS (`storageCrs`) SHALL be supported as a value. Other requirements classes may allow additional values (see `crs` parameter definition).
^|E |CRSs expressed as URIs or as safe CURIEs SHALL be supported.
^|F |If no `subset` parameter refers to an axis of the CRS value specified for the `subset-crs` parameter, this parameter SHALL be ignored.
|===

[[bbox-parameter]]
==== Parameter `bbox`

The `bbox` convenience parameter maps to a trimming operation (which could also be expressed using `subset`).
The parameter value consists of four coordinates which are to be interpreted as http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84 (`longitude,latitude,longitude,latitude`)
or six coordinates to be interpreted as http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84h (`longitude,latitude,h,longitude,latitude,h`) by default (unless a `bbox-crs` parameter is specified).
The equivalent `subset` parameter is simply the trimming operation from the first latitude to the second latitude, the first longitude to the second longitude, and the first height above the ellipsoid to the second height (if applicable).

[[bbox-definition]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Requirement {counter:req-id}* |*/req/subsetting-spatial/bbox-definition*
^|A|The coverage resource SHALL support a `bbox` parameter representing a spatial area to subset.
^|B|The bounding box SHALL be provided as four or six numbers, depending on whether the coordinate reference system includes a vertical axis (height or depth):

* Lower left corner, coordinate axis 1
* Lower left corner, coordinate axis 2
* Minimum value, coordinate axis 3 (optional)
* Upper right corner, coordinate axis 1
* Upper right corner, coordinate axis 2
* Maximum value, coordinate axis 3 (optional)

^|C|If the bounding box consists of four numbers, the coordinate reference system of the values SHALL be interpreted as WGS 84 longitude/latitude (http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84) unless a different coordinate reference system is specified in a parameter `bbox-crs`.
^|D|If the bounding box consists of six numbers, the coordinate reference system of the values SHALL be interpreted as WGS 84 longitude/latitude/ellipsoidal height (http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/0/CRS84h) unless a different coordinate reference system is specified in a parameter `bbox-crs`.
^|E|Only the portion of the coverage within the specified boundings box SHALL be part of the response, performing a trim subsetting operation.
^|F|If a `bbox` parameter is specified requesting a coverage without any spatial dimension, the parameter SHALL either be ignored, or a 4xx client error generated.
^|G|For a bounding box specified in a geographic CRS, a bounding box where the first longitude value is larger than the second longitude value SHALL be interpreted as crossing the anti-meridian.
|===

The bounding box for WGS 84 longitude/latitude is, in most cases, the sequence of minimum longitude, minimum latitude, maximum longitude and maximum latitude.
However, in cases where the box spans the anti-meridian (180th meridian) the first value (west-most box edge) is larger than the third value (east-most box edge).

.The bounding box of the New Zealand Exclusive Economic Zone
=================
The bounding box of the New Zealand Exclusive Economic Zone in WGS84 (from 160.6°E to 170°W and from 55.95°S to 25.89°S) would be represented in JSON as `[ 160.6, -55.95, -170, -25.89 ]` and in a query as `bbox=160.6,-55.95,-170,-25.89`.
=================

Note that the server should return an error if a latitude value of `160.0` is used.

If the vertical axis is included, the third and the sixth number are the bottom and the top of the 3-dimensional bounding box.

[[bbox-crs-parameter]]
==== Parameter `bbox-crs`

[[bbox-crs-definition]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Requirement {counter:req-id}* |*/req/subsetting-spatial/bbox-crs*
^|A|The coverage resource SHALL support a `bbox-crs` parameter specifying the CRS used for the `bbox` parameter.
^|B|For data referenced to Earth, the implementation SHALL support http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84 as a value.
^|C|If the `bbox-crs` is not indicated http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84 SHALL be assumed.
^|D|The native CRS (`storageCrs`) SHALL be supported as a value. Other conformance classes may allow additional values (see `crs` parameter definition).
^|E|The CRS expressed as URIs or as safe CURIEs SHALL be supported.
^|F|If the `bbox` parameter is not used, the `bbox-crs` SHALL be ignored.
|===

==== Permission for Slicing Sparse Dimensions

[[per_slice_sparse_dimension_spatial]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Permission {counter:per-id}* |*/per/subsetting-spatial/slice-sparse-dimension*
^|A |The empty portions in a coverage resulting from a slice operation on an axis (e.g. time), combined with a trimming operations on other axes (e.g. latitude and longitude)
 which would either be empty or not cover the full extent of the trim operation MAY be filled with data values from the same trim operation
 combined with a slicing operation on a different value of the slicing axis which would return non-empty values.
 For example, the closest or last previous time for which data is available for a certain geospatial extent may be returned.
 An Earth Observation use case for this permission is to allow retrieving a slice of the last available imagery on or before a certain date,
 taking into account that a certain geographic area may only be observed every few days.
^|B |This permission applies to both explicit slice operations using subset, as well as to implicit slicing from requesting an output format only supporting
 a lower dimensionality than the data (e.g. requesting a 2D image from a 3D coverage as PNG or GeoTIFF).
^|C |A query parameter defined by a custom or standardized extension MAY be made available to enable, disable or alter that behavior.
|===
