standard/requirements/coverage-subset/REQ_cov-subset-definition.adoc, before:

[[req_coverage_subset-definition]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Requirement {counter:req-id}* |*/req/coverage-subset/definition*
^|A |The operation SHALL support a parameter `subset` with the following characteristics (using an Backus Naur Form (BNF) fragment):

[source,BNF]
----
  SubsetSpec:        subset=axisName(intervalOrPoint)
  axisName:          {NCName}
  intervalOrPoint:   interval \| point
  interval:          low : high
  low:               point \| *
  high:              point \| *
  point:             {number} \| "{text}" 

  Where:
     \" = double quote = ASCII code 0x42,
     {NCName} is an XML-style identifier not containing ":" (colon) characters,
     {number} is an integer or floating-point number, and
     {text} is some general ASCII text (such as a time and date notation in ISO 8601).
----
^|B |The axis name SHALL be the same as one of the `axisLabels` defined in the DomainSet or else return a 400 status code.
^|C |The intervalOrPoint values SHALL fall within the range of valid values defined by the DomainSet for the identified axis or else return a 400 status code
|===

Commit message:

Addition of Scaling conformance classes (#88); and adjustments to subset conformance classes to address issue #86 - Also changing uppercase query parameters to lowercase to match current Common specifications

standard/requirements/coverage-subset/REQ_cov-subset-definition.adoc, after:

[[req_coverage_subset-definition]]
[width="90%",cols="2,6a"]
|===
^|*Requirement {counter:req-id}* |*/req/coverage-subset/definition*
^|A |The operation SHALL support a parameter `subset` with the following characteristics (using an Backus Naur Form (BNF) fragment):

[source,BNF]
----
  SubsetSpec:        subset=axisName(intervalOrPoint)
  axisName:          {NCName}
  intervalOrPoint:   interval \| point
  interval:          low : high
  low:               point \| *
  high:              point \| *
  point:             {number} \| "{text}"

  Where:
     \" = double quote = ASCII code 0x42,
     {NCName} is an XML-style identifier not containing ":" (colon) characters,
     {number} is an integer or floating-point number, and
     {text} is some general ASCII text (such as a time and date notation in ISO 8601).
----
^|B |The axis name SHALL be the same as one of the `axisLabels` defined in the DomainSet or else return a 400 status code.
^|C |If the intervalOrPoint values fall entirely outside the range of valid values defined by the DomainSet for the identified axis,a 204 status code SHALL be returned
|===

NOTE: When the intervalOrPoint values fall partially outside of the range of valid values defined by the DomainSet for the identified axis,
the service is expected to return the non-empty portion of the coverage resulting from the subset.
For subsetting on the range set, and for coverage media types with no geo-referencing mechanisms (e.g. PNG), NO_DATA values or transparency should be used.
If a georeferencing mechanism is available within the negotiated media type, the service could decide whether to use NO_DATA values
or simply return the properly geo-referenced values within the domain set.
